
You said:
Combined Curriculum Project 2024.docx
Document
go through this and organize each part of this curriculum into these categories. Introduction to Pre-Apprenticeship
"Professional Development Principles
 Intro
 Midterm
 Final"
Grit, Growth Mindset
How to be a Successful Apprentice
Elevator Pitch
Resumes
"Interviews
 Interview Skills  
 Group Interviews 
 Mock Interviews"
Applying for Apprenticeships & Job Search
"Financial Education
 Money Mindset"
Emotional Intelligence
RISE Up Advocacy and Bystander Intervention
Workers Compensation/Unemployment Insurance
Apprenticeship Portfolio
Individual Career Plan
Application Prep
ACE Instruction
ACES
Shop Introduction
Introduction to the Construction Trades
"Construction Trade Awareness
 Poster Project"
Labor History
Hand Tools
Power Tools
Materials Knowledge
"Intro to Measuring Tape
 Measuring Tape Exercises"
"Skills Projects
 Crate Project
 Concrete Project
 Wall Project
 Tiered Planter
 Tote Box"
Intro to Scaffolding
Ladder Safety
Intro to Clean Energy
Apprenticeship Tours
Worksite Tours
Speaker Presentations
OSHA 10
Forklift Certification
Flagger Certification
Physical Fitness
Nutrition
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 5m 31s
Below is everything I can find in Combined Curriculum Project 2024.docx, organized into your buckets. If something is not explicitly present in the document, I label it that way instead of guessing.

Introduction to Pre-Apprenticeship
Shop Orientation / Industry Awareness (program intro + shop norms): Shop Instruction Unit 1 “Orientation and Industry Awareness” (shop practices, PPE, safety). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Apprenticeship basics + how entry works: Module “Apprenticeship Overview and Entry Pathways” (steps to enter, pre-apprentice certificate, standards, wages/hours, etc.). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Union + apprenticeship vocabulary grounding: “Construction Trade Apprenticeships” section includes trade terminology, construction terms, union terms. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Professional Development Principles (Intro / Midterm / Final)
Intro: “Professional Development Principles – Part 1.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Midterm (closest match): “Self-Assessment and B.A.M.E’s integration into professional development planning.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Final: The document does not label a PDP “Final.” The closest “end-of-program” professional development requirements are tracked via early completion requirements (includes “Applied to Apprenticeship,” “IEP Met,” “Resume Completed”). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Grit, Growth Mindset
Professional Development Unit 2 “Grit-Growth Mindset.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Module “Grit-Growth Mindset.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


How to be a Successful Apprentice
Professional Development Unit 3 “How to be a Successful Apprentice.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Module “The Successful Apprentice.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Elevator Pitch
Professional Development Unit 5 “Elevator Pitch.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Module “Elevator Speech” (includes elevator pitch content + examples + rubric). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Resumes
Professional Development Unit 6 “Resume Writing.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Module “Resume Writing in the Construction Industry.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Interviews (Interview Skills / Group Interviews / Mock Interviews)
Professional Development Unit 11 lists: Interview Skills, Group Interviews, Mock Interviews. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Module “Interviewing Skills for Apprenticeship Success” explicitly includes group exercises and mock interviews. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Applying for Apprenticeships & Job Search
Professional Development Unit 7 “Construction Apprenticeship Entry Pathways” (application + job search navigation). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Module “Construction Apprenticeship Entry Pathways.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Also tied in: “Apprenticeship Overview and Entry Pathways” module (entry steps + standards + wage/hours + unemployment during class). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Financial Education (Money Mindset)
Professional Development Unit 8 “Financial Tools for the Trades.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Modules: “Build Financial Control” and “Finding Our Heart and Brains” (Financial Literacy + Money Mindset). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Emotional Intelligence
Professional Development Unit 8 includes “Financial Tools,” but Emotional Intelligence is its own Professional Development Unit 8? (In the unit list it’s Unit 8 = Financial Tools; Emotional Intelligence is Unit 8 in the TOC module list.) The explicit module is “Emotional Intelligence Enhancement.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Related content that fits this bucket: “Conflict Resolution” module. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


RISE Up Advocacy and Bystander Intervention
Professional Development Unit 9 “RISE Up Training.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Curriculum section labeled “Rise up” appears in the module list. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Workers Compensation / Unemployment Insurance
Professional Development Unit 10 “Worker’s Compensation and Unemployment Insurance” (listed as outside presentation). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Unemployment topic also appears inside “Apprenticeship Overview and Entry Pathways” (“Claiming Unemployment while attending apprenticeship class”). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Apprenticeship Portfolio
Module “Apprenticeship Portfolio Development” (Weeks 9–11; required contents include cover letter/elevator pitch, certs, transcripts, recommendations, resume, IDs, project photos). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Individual Career Plan
The document does not show a standalone “Individual Career Plan” module by that name.

Closest explicit requirement language is “IEP Met” as part of early completion requirements. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Also adjacent: Professional Development Unit 12 “Leadership and long-term career planning.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Application Prep
Module: “Apprenticeship Program Report Project” (this is clearly an application/career research prep deliverable). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


“Applied to Apprenticeship” is also tracked as an early completion requirement. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


“Construction Apprenticeship Entry Pathways” + “Apprenticeship Overview and Entry Pathways” both support application prep. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


ACE Instruction
Dimension 2 (ACES) Unit 1: “Station instruction & teaching (Weeks 1–2).” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


“ACE Station” section is listed in the curriculum content. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


ACES
Dimension 2: Apprenticeship Competency Evaluations (ACES) Unit 2 “Station circuit practice (Weeks 3–4).” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Shop Introduction
Shop Instruction Unit 1 “Orientation and Industry Awareness” (shop practices, PPE, safety). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Safety + PPE appear as explicit curriculum sections. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Introduction to the Construction Trades
Shop Instruction Unit 2 “Construction Trade Awareness” (overview of construction, types of trades, apprenticeship requirements, signatory contractors, prevailing wage). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


“Construction Career Exploration” section exists in the curriculum body list. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Trades rotation units (electrical; HVAC/sheet metal; laborers; operating engineers; carpenters; cement masons; ironworkers). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Construction Trade Awareness (Poster Project)
“Construction Trade Awareness” exists as a unit. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


A poster project is not explicitly named anywhere I can see in the document.

Labor History
Shop Instruction Unit 3 “Labor History.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Hand Tools
Shop Instruction Unit 4 “Hand Tools.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


“Hand tools for the trade” content section exists (striking, prying, screwdrivers, measuring/layout, levels/plumb, knives, clamps, wrenches, cutting, handsaws). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Power Tools
Shop Instruction Unit 5 “Power Tools.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


“Power Tools” content section exists. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Materials Knowledge
Shop Instruction Unit 6 “Materials Knowledge.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Intro to Measuring Tape (Measuring Tape Exercises)
Shop Instruction Unit 7 “Tape Measure.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


“Tape measurements” and “Intro to measuring and tape measuring practice” are explicit sections. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Skills Projects (Crate / Concrete / Wall / Tiered Planter / Tote Box)
Shop Instruction Unit 8 “Skills Projects.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Projects explicitly listed in this doc: Saw Horses, Crate Project, Group Project, Practice Wall (lesson outline). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Concrete Project, Tiered Planter, Tote Box are not explicitly present in the parts of the document I can retrieve/search.

Intro to Scaffolding
Shop Instruction Unit 9 “Intro to Scaffolding.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


I did not find separate “module procedures” text for scaffolding—this appears as a unit listing.

Ladder Safety
Shop Instruction Unit 10 “Ladder Safety.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


I did not find separate “module procedures” text for ladder safety—this appears as a unit listing.

Intro to Clean Energy
Not explicitly present as “clean energy,” “renewable,” “solar,” etc. (no hits in search).

Closest related technical content: “The Nature of Electricity” lesson appears in the project section list. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Apprenticeship Tours
Student handbook outcomes include exposure to apprenticeship training programs (“Exposure to 5 apprenticeship training programs”). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Worksite Tours
Student handbook includes visiting job sites (“Visit 2 job sites”). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Speaker Presentations
Professional Development units list multiple outside presentations (Lavender Rights Project; Worker’s Comp/Unemployment; plus others like Master Builders Association and a union apprenticeship fair). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


The handbook also states the program uses “a variety of experts” to support technical training. 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


OSHA 10
Listed as a core training topic (“OSHA 10”). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Forklift Certification
Listed as a core training topic (“Forklift operation”). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Flagger Certification
Listed as a core training topic (“Road flagging certifications”). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Physical Fitness
Dimension 6 “Physical Fitness” is explicitly defined (34 hours). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Also listed as a core topic (“Trades Fitness”). 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


Nutrition
Module “Food and Nutrition.” 
Combined Curriculum Project 2024


If you want this to be more “curriculum-manager useful,” the next step is converting this into a single table with columns: Bucket | Exact curriculum item title | Where it appears (Dimension/Unit or Module Procedures) | Notes (missing/partial)—but the mapping above is already the clean, evidence-based version from the doc.


Sources
You said:
i want you to store this in your memory the outline. im about to upload another huge file that was the curriculum before this and i need you to go through that and do a comparision. but i dont want you to glitch out. 
ChatGPT said:
Updated saved memory
Stored. The categories list and the baseline “what’s explicitly present vs missing/unnamed” notes from Combined Curriculum Project 2024.docx are now your comparison anchor.

Upload the prior curriculum file whenever you’re ready. When it’s in, I’ll do a straight, evidence-based comparison against this stored outline:

What’s the same (same topics, different naming)

What’s added/removed

What shifted (moved buckets, merged/split modules)

What exists in the old file that’s missing/unnamed in the new file (and vice versa)

No guessing, no filler.

You said:
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_Rv. 2022[1105] (Recovered).docx
Document
this is the original unedited. let me tell you what is going on. this was the workbook that was given to me when i used to be director. i have seen people come and go, things have been edited, things have changed, i have changed things. but ultimatley this is the core that we used to teach from. i want you to see what the original was so we can move on from here. this is the skeloton. this is the golden ticket. apparently my CEO who has a memory like a rock cannot remember that she was the one who approved changes and wants to move towards what we used to teach. so we are going to be working on a project to combine everything we have but using this as the shell and core. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 2m 45s
Got it. I’m looking at this workbook as the baseline “source-of-truth skeleton,” and it really is the core shell you can rebuild around.

What this 2022 workbook actually contains (in plain terms)

Front matter + identity
Mission/vision/values and the “student workbook” wrapper that frames everything. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Student-facing program rules (handbook)
This is the behavioral + attendance + discipline backbone: daily schedule (6:30–3:00), attendance rules, tardy conversion, no-show policy, makeups, missed certs, etc. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


It also includes student rights, harassment/discrimination reporting, injury reporting, disability accommodations, discipline ladder (verbal → written → admin review/discharge), and serious misconduct examples. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


The “3P’s & W” learning contract (culture standard)
Punctuality, Perseverance/Commitment, Positive Attitude, Work Ethic—plus the consequences framework. This is one of the clearest “ANEW way” artifacts in the whole document. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


The actual curriculum architecture (the golden ticket part)
Program structure is explicitly defined as:

Total Course Hours: 280 hours, 35 days

Additional required hours: 10 (Speed mentoring 2, Service learning 8) 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Then the curriculum is organized into dimensions with hours:

D1 Professional Development: 34

D2 ACES: 56

D3 Career Exploration/Shop + Tours: 90

D4 Math: 40

D5 Safety Certs: 26

D6 Physical Fitness: 34
(Total = 280), plus D7 outside-hours = 10. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Inside those dimensions, the workbook even breaks units down (this is the part your CEO “can’t remember,” but the document does):

D1 units include PDPs, grit/growth mindset, elevator pitch, resumes, interviews (incl. group + mock), job search, financial tools/money mindset, RISE Up, workers comp/UI, apprenticeship portfolio, etc. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


D2 ACES structure: station instruction early, then repeated circuit practice. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


D3 shop/tours split: shop instruction units (orientation, trade awareness, labor history, hand tools, power tools, materials, tape measure, skills projects) + apprenticeship/worksite tours. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Two “watch this” issues you’ll want to leverage during the rebuild

The document contradicts itself on duration language
It calls the program 35 days / 280 hours, but the attendance section references a “12-week period.” That’s a red flag for “this got templated and patched over time,” which supports your point that edits happened and leadership approved them. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…

 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


“280 hours” vs “additional 10 hours”
It cleanly states 280 instructional hours, then separately requires 10 more hours outside program hours (speed mentoring + service learning). That’s not wrong, but it needs to be explicitly handled in your combined master version so nobody plays dumb later. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…

 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


How to use this as the shell to combine everything (clean, defensible method)

Step 1: Freeze this as the “Baseline Framework”
Lock the dimensions, units, and hour allocations as the spine. That prevents “random curriculum drift” and keeps the rebuild auditable.

Step 2: Build a crosswalk from “current reality” into this spine
For every current handout/slide/deck/activity you’re using now, map it into:

Dimension → Unit → Competency (where possible)
If something doesn’t fit, it’s either:

A replacement (same slot, newer content), or

An add-on (requires hour tradeoff or becomes “outside-hours / enrichment”)

Step 3: Produce a combined master with a change log
Your CEO problem is a change-log problem. The fix is boring but bulletproof:

“Baseline (2022)”

“Approved modifications (date / approver / what changed / why)”
Even if leadership “forgets,” the document won’t.

Step 4: Split student-facing vs staff-facing (optional but smart)
This workbook mixes policy, curriculum outline, and training content. You can keep the shell, but separating:

Student Handbook section (rules/rights/discipline)

Curriculum workbook section (units/materials)
…makes updates cleaner and stops policy edits from accidentally messing with instructional content.

When you’re ready to move on, the next action is simple: we pull the Dimension/Unit skeleton out of this workbook exactly as written, then start dropping your current content into the matching slots and flagging anything that forces an hour/structure decision.


Sources
You said:
store to memory, and then we can move on, i want you to know this like the back of your hand. once you have this mapped out, i am going to start uploading all our old documents that i have access to. then we will move to the new documents. 
ChatGPT said:
I tried to store it, but memory is locked in this chat right now (tool restriction on this thread). So I cannot truthfully say it’s saved.

No problem though: I can still treat the 2022 workbook as the baseline shell for the rest of this conversation and do the comparisons as you upload files. To prevent “glitch-out” chaos, I’m going to anchor our work to a fixed baseline summary right here (this becomes our working reference in-thread):

Baseline shell (ANEW P.A. Student Workbook Rev. 2022 [1105])

Program totals

280 instructional hours / 35 days

Plus 10 required outside-hours: Speed Mentoring 2 hrs + Service Learning 8 hrs

Dimensions and hours (280 total)

D1 Professional Development: 34

D2 ACES: 56

D3 Career Exploration / Shop + Tours: 90

D4 Math: 40

D5 Safety Certifications: 26

D6 Physical Fitness: 34

D7 Outside-hours: 10 (separate from the 280)

Core baseline artifacts inside the workbook

Student Handbook / policies: attendance, tardy/no-show rules, discipline ladder, reporting/rights

“3P’s & W”: Punctuality, Perseverance/Commitment, Positive Attitude, Work Ethic

The Dimension/Unit curriculum outline listings (D1 topic list; D2 station instruction + repeated circuits; D3 shop units + tours)

Known internal inconsistency to keep flagged

Attendance section references a “12-week period” while the curriculum totals define 35 days / 280 hours.

Now upload the next “old” document. I’ll map it into this shell and produce a clean comparison: same / moved / added / removed / renamed, with zero guesswork.

You said:
recommendation to keep track of all this work. should i use notion or something similar. tell me what would be the best place to create a new curriculum. me personally i use google classroom to keep all my stuff. they use share point which is horrible because people make copies and change the master shit all the time. this is what got us in this shit hole the first place. but i need a spot to build out and then i can move it to where ever. i dont even mind if we code it out somewhere. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 1m 8s
You don’t have a “tool” problem. You have a “master-copy governance” problem. The best place to build the new curriculum is wherever you can enforce: one source of truth, version history, and controlled changes.

My recommendation: Git-based “docs-as-code” as the master, then publish anywhere you want
Use a private GitHub repo (or Azure DevOps if your org lives in Microsoft land) as the canonical source. Write the curriculum in Markdown (or keep Word/PDF files too), and publish it as a simple documentation site (MkDocs/Docusaurus) or export PDFs for staff.

Why this wins:

Every change is tracked, attributable, and revertible (no mystery edits).

You can require reviews/approvals before anything becomes “master.”

You can tag official versions (“2022 baseline,” “2026 combined v1”), and keep multiple versions cleanly (tools like “mike” exist specifically to manage versioned MkDocs docs in Git). 

SharePoint becomes a view-only “distribution mirror,” not the place people edit.

If you’re willing to “code it out somewhere,” this is the cleanest long-term fix.

Best non-code option (since you already live in Google): Google Drive/Docs as the master, with strict rules
Google Docs/Sheets/Slides have built-in version history and you can restore earlier versions (with edit permission). 

For Word/PDF files stored in Drive, Drive also keeps file versions, but older versions can be deleted after 30 days or after 100 newer versions unless you explicitly “Keep forever.” 

So Google can work if you enforce:

One Shared Drive called “Curriculum Master” with very limited editors

Everyone else is view/comment only

Required workflow: update the existing file (or upload a new version), do not make copies

“Keep forever” on milestone versions (quarterly/annually, or every approved release). 

Where Notion fits (and where it doesn’t)
Notion is great for drafting and brainstorming, but as the canonical master it’s weaker unless you’re on the right plan. Notion’s page version history is limited by plan (Free 7 days, Plus 30, Business 90; Enterprise is longer/unlimited). 

That’s not what you want for a “golden ticket” curriculum that needs receipts.

SharePoint isn’t doomed, it’s just being used wrong
SharePoint can be configured to prevent the “everyone edits the master” chaos: it supports versioning and can require check-out/check-in, which locks a file for exclusive editing until it’s checked back in. 

If your org insists on SharePoint, the fix is: master library with versioning + required checkout + restricted editors. 

But if the culture is “copy and mutate,” SharePoint will still get abused unless permissions are tight.

A practical setup that matches your reality

Build the master in Git (best) or Google Drive (second best).

Use Google Classroom purely as the student delivery layer (handouts, links, assignments).

Use SharePoint only as a read-only publishing mirror for internal staff who refuse to click anything that isn’t Microsoft.

Rules that prevent a repeat of this mess

One canonical master location. Everything else is a published copy.

No editing in the publishing location (SharePoint/Classroom).

Every approved change gets logged (date, what changed, who approved).

“Copies” are prohibited unless labeled explicitly as drafts.

If you pick one path: go Git as master, Classroom for students, SharePoint as view-only mirror. That combination is basically a padlock, a ledger, and a loudspeaker.

You said:
i agree coding it out. i just have to have a spot where people can download the files as pdfs. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 50s
Yep. “Code it out” + “people can download PDFs” is a solved problem if you treat the curriculum like documentation.

The cleanest setup

Canonical source: a Git repo

Curriculum lives as Markdown files (plus any source docs you want to keep).

You lock the main branch so nobody can “edit the master” without a reviewed change.

Publish: a documentation site (MkDocs)

MkDocs is built for this exact use case and can deploy to GitHub Pages. 

PDFs: auto-generate + host for download
You have two good patterns:

A) PDFs available directly on the site (best day-to-day)

Use an MkDocs PDF export plugin that generates:

One combined “full curriculum” PDF

Optionally per-page PDFs

Example: mkdocs-exporter supports exporting pages and aggregating the whole site into one PDF. 

Alternative options exist too (WeasyPrint-based single-PDF plugins), but exporter is straightforward for “download button + full PDF.” 

Result: staff go to the site and click “Download PDF.” No hunting.

B) Official “releases” for PDFs (best for version control and audits)

When you tag a version (example: v2026.1), GitHub Releases can host PDF files as downloadable release assets. 

You can automate uploading the PDFs to the Release with softprops/action-gh-release. 

Result: “Here’s the approved curriculum PDF for Q2 2026” with a permanent download link, and you can always roll back.

What I’d do in your world (SharePoint culture, Google Classroom delivery)

Git repo = master

MkDocs site = staff view/download hub (HTML + PDFs)

GitHub Release PDF = the “official signed version” per quarter or per major update

Google Classroom = student delivery (link out to the site or attach the specific PDF)

SharePoint = optional mirror for distribution only, not editing

If you want a concrete blueprint (minimal moving parts)

MkDocs deploy to GitHub Pages (MkDocs supports this workflow). 

Generate PDFs during the build (plugin). 

Upload the “full curriculum PDF” as a release asset on tags. 

If you tell me where you want it hosted (GitHub Pages vs internal only), I’ll give you the exact repo structure and the build workflow file to make the site + PDFs publish automatically.

You said:
i have unlimited creation in Github pages. I also have unlimited in notion. so either way. Notion kind of kinks out if the file is too big. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 47s
Go GitHub Pages as the “master,” and treat PDFs as a first-class output.

Notion is great for drafting, but it’s a shaky single source of truth when the content gets big and you care about “what changed, when, and who approved it.” Notion’s page history is also plan-limited (7/30/90 days unless Enterprise). 
 And big exports can fail or fall back to HTML. 

Here’s the setup that won’t drift into copy-chaos again.

GitHub is the master, GitHub Pages is the public bookshelf, PDFs are downloadable artifacts

Curriculum “source” lives in a private repo (Markdown + assets)

One canonical branch (main).

Changes only via pull requests (review/approval = your CEO-proof receipt trail).

GitHub Pages hosts the live curriculum site (always current)
Reality check: GitHub Pages is not truly “unlimited.” The published site is capped at 1 GB and there are soft limits (bandwidth/builds). 
 So we plan for that.

PDFs are generated automatically and made easy to download
Two ways, and you can use both:

A) Small/medium PDFs: host on the Pages site

Works fine as long as your total site stays under the Pages size limit. 

B) “Official” PDFs: attach to GitHub Releases (best practice)

GitHub explicitly recommends Releases for distributing large binaries. 

Your site links to the latest Release PDF(s) (“Download the official PDF here”).

This is the clean solution to “staff want PDFs,” while keeping the repo/site from bloating. GitHub also blocks single files over 100 MiB in the repo, so Releases prevent you from fighting that ceiling. 

Why Notion will keep biting you for this use case

Exports: Notion can export pages/databases to PDF, but large exports may come via email, and if PDF export fails it can export as HTML instead. 

Version history is plan-limited unless Enterprise, which is a problem if you need long-term audit trails for curriculum decisions. 

File handling has constraints; for example, Notion notes size limits and different behavior by plan. 

What I’d do in your situation

Build and govern in GitHub (master).

Publish on GitHub Pages (easy reading).

Generate PDFs every time you tag a version (v2022-baseline, v2026-combined-v1, etc.) and publish those PDFs as Release downloads.

If leadership insists on SharePoint later, you drop the PDF there as a “published copy” only. No editing.

If you want, I can lay out the exact folder structure and the build workflow (MkDocs + PDF generation + Pages deploy + Release PDF upload) so you can just paste it into a repo and be done.

You said:
i dont need to to actually be a pdf that i upload. it can be content and then generate a pdf. i have done this in github before. me and you. we have content and then we generate the information into a pdf. i need everyone to have access to the curriculum, this was the problem with google. they didnt have access and they cried like babies, i also want to keep my art work. so moving forward, i think coding will be the best because you can code it out using the same font, format, text and nothing will deviate. the 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 41s
Coding it out is the right move for what you’re trying to prevent: “copies drifting into alternate realities.”

Use this pattern: MkDocs site on GitHub Pages + automatic PDF generation from the same source

Why this matches your requirements

Single source of truth: Markdown content in one repo, changes tracked and reversible.

Consistent formatting: one theme + your CSS controls fonts, spacing, headings, and page breaks.

Everyone has access: GitHub Pages is public and dead simple to view.

PDFs are generated from the content at build time (no manual uploading).

The stack I recommend

MkDocs for the site

Publish to GitHub Pages.

Use one theme (Material is common, but any consistent theme works).

PDF generation at build time
Two solid options:

Option A (best for “one full curriculum PDF + nice layout”): mkdocs-exporter

Can export each page and also aggregate the whole site into a single PDF.

Supports custom stylesheets and cover pages (so your PDF can look like your workbook). 

Option B (best for “simple WeasyPrint pipeline”): mkdocs-pdf-export-plugin or mkpdfs

Exports PDFs using WeasyPrint; mkpdfs focuses on a single combined PDF and emphasizes full design control. 

I’d start with mkdocs-exporter because it’s built for “site + combined PDF” and expects CSS customization. 

How you handle artwork cleanly

Store artwork in the repo under docs/assets/… and reference it in Markdown.

If any single file is huge: GitHub blocks files larger than 100 MiB in the repo; you’d need Git LFS for that. 

Also keep an eye on GitHub Pages size limits: published sites must be ≤ 1 GB. 

If your PDFs or artwork ever push that limit, the standard move is: keep the site lean and put big PDF outputs in GitHub Releases (still publicly downloadable). GitHub itself recommends Releases for distributing large binaries instead of tracking them in the repo. 

A simple repo layout that works

mkdocs.yml

docs/

index.md

01-intro/…

02-professional-development/…

assets/ (images, logos, diagrams)

styles/ (site CSS + PDF CSS)

PDFs for staff

Your build generates curriculum.pdf every time you publish.

Your site has a stable link like /downloads/curriculum.pdf.

Governance that prevents SharePoint-style “master drift”

Main branch protected

Pull requests required for changes

Tags for official versions (so you can always point to “the approved version”)

If you want this to be turnkey, tell me one detail and I’ll give you the exact mkdocs.yml + GitHub Actions workflow file:

Do you want one combined PDF only, or combined + per-section PDFs?

You said:
not that i am telling you what to do, but copilot is saying this. "Building an app that allows users to upload educational content, processes it into a structured curriculum, and enables instructors/students to download materials as PDFs is a solid idea for an educational platform. This could involve web development, content processing, PDF generation, and possibly AI integration for structuring the curriculum. Since you're asking about how to do this, I'll outline a high-level, step-by-step guide to get you started. I'll focus on a web-based app (e.g., full-stack), as it's common and scalable, but you could adapt this for mobile.

I'll assume you're building this from scratch. If you have a preferred tech stack or hosting platform, provide more details for tailored advice. This isn't a GitHub-specific question, but I'll suggest using GitHub for version control, collaboration, and hosting your code.

1. Define Your App's Requirements and Scope
Core Features:
Upload Content: Support file types like PDFs, docs, images, videos, or text. Use a file uploader (e.g., drag-and-drop via libraries like Dropzone.js).
Curriculum Generation: Automatically or semi-automatically structure uploaded content into modules, lessons, quizzes, etc. This could use AI (e.g., OpenAI's GPT models) to analyze and organize content, or simple logic like tagging/sequencing based on keywords.
User Roles: Instructors upload/edit content; students view/download. Use authentication (e.g., OAuth with Google/GitHub).
PDF Download: Generate PDFs from the curriculum data (e.g., lesson plans, handouts).
Other: Search, progress tracking, notifications.
Non-Functional: Scalability (handle multiple users), security (protect content), accessibility (WCAG compliance).
MVP (Minimum Viable Product): Start simple—upload text/docs, basic structuring, and PDF export. Add AI later.
Tools: Sketch wireframes (Figma), define user stories (e.g., "As an instructor, I want to upload a doc and see it as a lesson module").
2. Choose a Tech Stack
Select based on your experience. Here's a beginner-friendly stack for a full-stack web app:

Frontend: React.js (with Next.js for SSR) or Vue.js. Handles UI for uploads, curriculum views, and downloads.
Backend: Node.js (Express.js) or Python (Flask/Django). Handles file processing, API calls, and database interactions.
Database: PostgreSQL or MongoDB for storing content metadata, user data, and curriculum structures.
File Storage: AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, or Cloudinary for uploaded files (secure, scalable).
PDF Generation: Libraries like pdfkit (Node.js), ReportLab (Python), or Puppeteer (renders HTML to PDF).
AI for Curriculum Structuring (Optional): Integrate OpenAI API or Hugging Face models to parse content and suggest structures (e.g., "Turn this doc into 3 lessons").
Hosting/Deployment: Vercel/Netlify (frontend), Heroku/Render (backend), or AWS/DigitalOcean for full control.
Version Control: GitHub for your repo. Use GitHub Actions for CI/CD (automated testing/deployment).
3. Set Up Your Development Environment
Install Node.js/Python, Git, and a code editor (VS Code).
Create a GitHub repo: Go to github.com, create a new repository (e.g., "edu-curriculum-app"), clone it locally.
Initialize the project: For Node.js, run npm init and install dependencies like Express, Multer (for uploads), pdfkit.
For Python: Use pip to install Flask, reportlab.
Set up a local database (e.g., SQLite for dev, then PostgreSQL for prod).
4. Build the Backend (API and Logic)
File Upload Endpoint: Create an API route to handle uploads. Use Multer (Node) or Flask-Uploads. Store files in cloud storage and save metadata (e.g., file type, uploader) in the DB.
Content Processing: After upload, parse the content (e.g., use libraries like pdf-parse for PDFs or Tesseract for OCR on images). If using AI, send content to an API like OpenAI to generate a structured curriculum (e.g., JSON with modules: {title, content, quizzes}).
Curriculum Structuring: Store the processed data as a curriculum object. Allow instructors to edit it via a dashboard.
PDF Generation Endpoint: On request, fetch curriculum data, format it into HTML/CSS, and convert to PDF using Puppeteer. Example (Node.js):
JavaScript
const puppeteer = require('puppeteer');

async function generatePDF(htmlContent) {
  const browser = await puppeteer.launch();
  const page = await browser.newPage();
  await page.setContent(htmlContent);
  const pdfBuffer = await page.pdf({ format: 'A4' });
  await browser.close();
  return pdfBuffer;
}
Security: Add authentication (e.g., JWT tokens), validate file types/sizes, and encrypt sensitive data.
5. Build the Frontend
Create components for: Upload form, curriculum viewer (e.g., accordion for modules), download button.
Use Axios/Fetch to call backend APIs.
For PDF download: When a user clicks "Download," trigger the backend to generate and send the PDF as a file response.
Make it responsive (mobile-friendly) with CSS frameworks like Tailwind or Bootstrap.
6. Integrate AI (If Desired)
Sign up for OpenAI API (or similar). In your backend, send uploaded text to the API with a prompt like: "Convert this educational content into a curriculum with lessons, objectives, and quizzes."
Parse the response and save it to your DB. This adds "magic" to turning uploads into curricula.
7. Test and Deploy
Test locally: Upload files, generate curricula, download PDFs.
Use tools like Jest (testing), ESLint (code quality).
Deploy: Push code to GitHub, connect to a hosting service. Set up environment variables for secrets (e.g., API keys).
Monitor with tools like Sentry for errors.
8. Legal and Best Practices
Privacy: Comply with GDPR/CCPA for user data. Don't store sensitive info without consent.
Open Source Inspiration: Check repos like "Moodle" or "OpenEdX" for LMS ideas. For PDF gen, look at github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer.
Costs: Free tiers for starters, but expect costs for storage/AI as you scale.
Community: Join GitHub communities or forums like Stack Overflow for help.
If you want to start coding, share a GitHub repo, and I can help with specific code snippets or debugging. For example, do you have a preferred language or any code started? Or if this is tied to a specific GitHub project, let me know!"
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 54s
Copilot isn’t wrong, it’s just describing a much bigger product than you actually need. What you described (stop master drift, keep formatting consistent, everyone can access it, generate PDFs) is best solved with a documentation pipeline, not an “upload-and-AI-structure” app.

The simplest architecture that hits all your requirements

GitHub repo is the master

Curriculum written as Markdown (plus images/assets).

Protected main branch + pull requests = nobody “edits the master” without a tracked change.

GitHub Pages is the public read-only curriculum site

Everyone has access without accounts.

Reality check: Pages is not unlimited. Published sites must be no larger than 1 GB and there are soft limits (bandwidth/build frequency). 

PDFs are generated automatically from the same content

Use MkDocs + a PDF export plugin to generate:

One combined “full curriculum” PDF

Optional per-section PDFs

MkDocs Exporter explicitly supports exporting individual pages and combining the whole documentation into a single PDF, with custom stylesheets and cover pages. 

Artwork is preserved, consistently rendered, and controlled

Store artwork in the repo under docs/assets/.

GitHub blocks files larger than 100 MiB in a repo; for large assets use Git LFS (which is built for this). 

If you ever generate large PDFs, don’t store them in the repo. GitHub recommends using Releases to distribute large binaries instead of tracking them in Git history. 

How you get “same font, same layout, nothing deviates”

The site uses one theme + one CSS file.

The PDF generator uses a dedicated PDF stylesheet (so your PDF matches your workbook style).

You can host your fonts (woff/ttf) in the repo and reference them in CSS so every build uses the same typography.

Where Notion fits (given what you said)
Notion is fine as a scratchpad/drafting space, but it’s a bad canonical master for a large curriculum when you need long-term change receipts. Page history is plan-based (7/30/90 days; unlimited only on Enterprise), and you already noticed it struggles when things get big. 

What I would do, based on your constraints

Build the curriculum in GitHub (Markdown + assets).

Publish via GitHub Pages (public access).

Generate PDFs during the build.

Put the “official” PDF on a stable URL on the site if it stays small; otherwise publish the auto-generated PDF as a GitHub Release asset and link to it from the site. 

If you want to move fast: I can give you a ready-to-paste repo skeleton (folders + mkdocs.yml + GitHub Actions workflow) that builds the site and drops a combined PDF into a /downloads/ link automatically using mkdocs-exporter. 

You said:
on the artwork, i want to keep my art work that i have designed. i do not want it to go into the new curriculum. we are redesigning everything. 
ChatGPT said:
Perfect. Then treat your artwork like a separate asset library, not curriculum content. Same repo ecosystem, different vault.

The clean way to do this (so nothing “accidentally” leaks into the new curriculum)

Separate repositories

Repo A: curriculum-master (public via GitHub Pages)

Contains only the new curriculum content + new visuals you approve.

Repo B: artwork-library (private)

Contains all your original designs, source files, exported PNG/SVG, etc.

Never referenced by the curriculum repo.

This is the simplest “hard wall.” No one can “oops” your old art into the new build because it’s not even in the same repo.

If you need one repo for everything (not my favorite, but workable)

Keep artwork in a folder that is never used by MkDocs:

Example: /private_art/

Add a rule that the build ignores it.

Still: if the repo is public, the files are public. So don’t do this unless the repo is private. GitHub Pages from a private repo requires GitHub to publish, but the generated Pages site can still be public depending on settings. The safest version is two repos.

Governance rule (non-negotiable)

Curriculum repo: only “release-ready” assets.

Artwork repo: personal IP archive. No staff edits. No copies.

Big files / source formats
If your artwork includes big source files, GitHub blocks individual files over 100 MiB unless you use Git LFS.
So the private artwork repo should either:

use Git LFS for heavy files, or

store only the source files somewhere else and keep the exported “working” versions in Git.

What this gives you

You keep your art safe and intact.

The new curriculum can be redesigned cleanly without old branding “ghosting” into pages.

You still get consistent fonts/layout because the curriculum site is coded and controlled.

Next step that makes this bulletproof
Decide the repo split:

curriculum-master (public Pages, PDF outputs)

artwork-library (private archive, no publishing)

Then we set a simple “asset policy” for the curriculum repo: only approved new visuals, stored in docs/assets/, and anything else is rejected in review.

You said:
my plan is to have us build out everything from scratch. i am going to upload what I have, you going to read it, and then you will help edit, clean up, rewrite for github transfer. this way the information and content is consistant, no outdated information. we are building this one step at a time. 
ChatGPT said:
That plan is solid. It’s basically “controlled demolition + rebuild,” which is exactly how you stop curriculum drift.

Here’s the workflow I recommend so it stays clean, consistent, and GitHub-ready, while still letting you move step-by-step.

The build workflow (one step at a time, no chaos)

Source intake (what you upload)
For each document you upload, I will extract only:

Content that is still valid

Content that belongs in one of your buckets

Any policy/requirements that must remain verbatim (if applicable)

Everything else gets flagged as:

Outdated

Duplicative

Conflicting

Needs rewrite

Rewrite into “Curriculum Units” (GitHub format)
For each bucket, we will produce:

One Markdown page per unit (or per subunit if it’s long)

A standard structure so every page looks and reads the same:

Purpose

Learning outcomes

Key terms

Core content

Instructor notes (optional, can be a separate staff-only build later)

Deliverables / artifacts (what students submit)

Time estimate / pacing (if you want it)

Truth control (the “no outdated info” rule)
Every time we rewrite:

If it’s stated in the doc: we keep it, cite it, or rewrite it cleanly.

If it’s not in the doc: we don’t invent it.

If two docs conflict: we flag the conflict and pick the “new official” version intentionally (you decide, or you tell me the rule like “use the newest revision date”).

GitHub transfer ready outputs
Each unit will come with:

The Markdown file content

The intended filename and folder path (example: docs/01-intro/overview.md)

A short “Change Notes” block for your records (what was removed/updated and why)

How we prevent “glitches” and losing the thread

We keep a running “Curriculum Build Index” in this chat: a simple list of pages we’ve created and what source doc they came from.

We never try to rewrite the whole universe in one shot. One bucket/unit per pass.

What I need from you (one decision, then you can just upload)
Pick the first build target:
A) Start with the “shell” pages (program overview, structure, dimensions, glossary, navigation), or
B) Start with a high-impact teaching unit (like Professional Development Principles or Shop Introduction)

Either works. Starting with the shell tends to make everything else easier because it gives us the site structure immediately.

Upload the next file when you’re ready, and I’ll start the intake → mapping → rewrite pipeline.

You said:
everything has to follow this structure. this is the golden rule
this is the golden rule : "Introduction to Pre-Apprenticeship		3 hours		3
"Professional Development Principles
 Intro
 Midterm
 Final"	"1 hour
 1 hour
 1hour"	3 hours		3
Grit, Growth Mindset		1 hour		1
How to be a Successful Apprentice		1 hour		1
Elevator Pitch		2 hours		2
Resumes	4 x 1 hour	4 hours		4
"Interviews
 Interview Skills  
 Group Interviews 
 Mock Interviews"	"2 hours
 2 hours 
 6 hours"	10 hours		10
Applying for Apprenticeships & Job Search	3 x 1-hours	3 hours		3
"Financial Education
 Money Mindset"	"2 hours
 4 X 15 min"	3 hours		3
Emotional Intelligence		2 hours		2
RISE Up Advocacy and Bystander Intervention		2 hours		2
Workers Compensation/Unemployment Insurance		2 hours		2
Apprenticeship Portfolio	4 x 1 hour	4 hours		4
Individual Career Plan	3 X 1 hour	3 hours		3
Application Prep	2 X 1 hour	2 hours		2
ACE Instruction	Week-1, 2x 2-hours	4 hours		4
ACES	2x Weekly, 2-hours	36 hours		36
Shop Introduction		1 hour		1
Introduction to the Construction Trades		2 hours		2
"Construction Trade Awareness
 Poster Project"	"2 hours
 2 hours"	4 hours		4
Labor History		1 hour		1
Hand Tools	3 x 1 hour	3 hours		3
Power Tools	3 x 1 hour	3 hours		3
Materials Knowledge		1 hour		1
"Intro to Measuring Tape
 Measuring Tape Exercises"	"1 hour
 1 hour"	2 hours		2
"Skills Projects
 Crate Project
 Concrete Project
 Wall Project
 Tiered Planter
 Tote Box"		42 hours		42
Intro to Scaffolding		2 hours		2
Ladder Safety		1 hour		1
Intro to Clean Energy		2 hours		2
Apprenticeship Tours	5x @ 4 hours	20 hours		20
Worksite Tours	2x @ 4 hours	8 hours		8
Speaker Presentations	2 x @ 2 hours	4 hours		4
OSHA 10	2 days, 5-hours	10 hours		10
Forklift Certification	1 day	8 hours		8
Flagger Certification	1 day	8 hours		8
Physical Fitness	32x @ 1-hour	32 hours		32
Nutrition		1 hour		1
				240
MATH				40
Support Services				
TOTALS				280"
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 39s
Understood. This hour map is now the binding blueprint for everything we build and rewrite going forward in this project.

One important transparency note: I can’t save this into long-term memory in this chat (memory is disabled on this thread), but I can treat it as the fixed “constitution” for the rest of this conversation and enforce it every time you upload content.

Golden Rule normalized (so it’s enforceable)
Totals check out:

Core curriculum (everything you listed except Math): 240 hours

Math: 40 hours

Grand total: 280 hours

Subcomponents clarified (no math tricks later):

Professional Development Principles: 1 + 1 + 1 = 3 hours

Resumes: 4 × 1 hour = 4 hours

Interviews: 2 + 2 + 6 = 10 hours

Applying for Apprenticeships & Job Search: 3 × 1 hour = 3 hours

Financial Education + Money Mindset: 2 hours + (4 × 15 min = 1 hour) = 3 hours

Apprenticeship Portfolio: 4 × 1 hour = 4 hours

Individual Career Plan: 3 × 1 hour = 3 hours

Application Prep: 2 × 1 hour = 2 hours

ACE Instruction: Week 1, 2 × 2 hours = 4 hours

ACES: 2× weekly @ 2 hours = 36 hours

Skills Projects total = 42 hours (projects listed inside this bucket)

Tours/Certs: Apprenticeship tours 20; Worksite tours 8; Speakers 4; OSHA10 10; Forklift 8; Flagger 8

Physical fitness: 32 × 1 hour = 32 hours

Nutrition: 1 hour

How I will enforce this while rewriting for GitHub
For every file you upload, I will:

Map content only into these buckets/sub-buckets (no new categories unless you explicitly change the Golden Rule).

Rewrite into clean curriculum pages that declare:

Bucket name

Required hours

Session pattern (example: “4 x 1-hour sessions”)

Flag anything that would cause drift:

Content that doesn’t fit any bucket

Content that would require extra hours

Duplicates across buckets

Outdated/conflicting policy language

How we handle “Support Services”
In your table it’s blank, and that’s good. We’ll treat Support Services as non-instructional (tracked separately, not part of the 280 curriculum hours) unless you tell me otherwise.

When you upload the next “old” document, I’ll produce a crosswalk against this Golden Rule (bucket by bucket) and identify exactly what gets kept, rewritten, or thrown out.

You said:
why is memory disabled on this thread
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 8s
Because this chat session has memory locked by the system after a tool interaction.

The only “why” I can see on my side is the system notice I got: memory (the thing that saves info for future chats) was disabled because another tool used in this conversation is flagged as incompatible with saving memory in this thread. I don’t get a more detailed explanation than that, and I can’t override it.

What this means in practice:

I can still hold the Golden Rule and everything else as working context inside this conversation and apply it consistently.

I cannot commit new items into your long-term memory from this specific thread.

Workarounds that actually work:

Start a new chat and paste the Golden Rule there, and I can store it immediately.

Or keep everything in this chat and I’ll maintain a “master index” here as we build (functionally the same during this project, just not portable to future chats automatically).

You said:
what is a tool interaction
ChatGPT said:
A “tool interaction” is when I use one of the built-in helper systems that isn’t just me typing words back to you.

Examples in plain English:

Web browsing/search (pulling live sources)

Reading or searching files you uploaded (like your .docx)

Creating/reading calendar or email items (if connected)

Generating images

Running code to produce a file (PDF, spreadsheet, etc.)

Automations/reminders

Anything that calls an external or specialized subsystem

In this chat, the big one is: I read and analyzed your uploaded Word documents using the file-reading/search tooling. That counts as a tool interaction.

Why that matters:
Some conversations get put into a mode where long-term memory saving is turned off after certain tool use. I don’t control that switch, and I don’t get to see the exact rule that triggered it—just the result that memory is disabled for this thread.

You said:
crazy. should i turn this chat into a project and generate a golden rule on a thread?
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 15s
Yes — but don’t rely on “chat memory” (or even a Project) as the vault. Use a Project for organization, and use a repo file as the law.

What to do:

Turn this into a Project (good for not glitching)
A Project is useful because you can keep all the uploads, notes, and the running decisions in one place instead of scattering them across 18 chats. That reduces “context evaporation.”

Make the Golden Rule a real artifact, not a chat message
Put it in the GitHub repo as the first immutable file. Example:

00_GOLDEN_RULE_HOURS.md (human-readable)

00_GOLDEN_RULE_HOURS.csv or .yml (machine-checkable)

CHANGELOG.md (every approved change gets logged)

Then every curriculum page we write references that file as the authority. No guessing, no drift.

Add a simple validation so nobody can “accidentally” break 280 hours
Tiny script (or GitHub Action) that fails the build if:

Core ≠ 240

Math ≠ 40

Total ≠ 280

That single guardrail prevents the exact SharePoint/Google mess you described.

Bottom line
Use a Project to keep the work together, but make GitHub the constitution. The Golden Rule should live as a versioned file in the repo so it’s always recoverable, always auditable, and always enforceable.

You said:
okay well we have copilot standing by. why dont you just give me a prompt for them to build out this thing and lets get moving. let them help you build this out within their cababilites, just tell them what you want and how you want it in super super detail and then we can move on to uploading all this shit and short it out.
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 1m 23s
GitHub Pages + MkDocs + auto-generated PDFs is the right lane. Just keep in mind Pages has hard/soft limits (published site size 1 GB, soft bandwidth limits, etc.). 
 Also use the official Pages deployment actions (upload-pages-artifact + deploy-pages) so you’re not messing with gh-pages branches manually. 

Paste this entire prompt into Copilot Chat (VS Code) and tell it to implement exactly.

You are GitHub Copilot. Build a curriculum “docs-as-code” repo from scratch, optimized for:
- One immutable “Golden Rule” hour structure (core 240 + Math 40 = 280 total).
- Public access via GitHub Pages.
- Curriculum content written in Markdown with consistent formatting (no icons/emojis in content).
- Automatic PDF generation from the same content (no manual PDF uploads).
- Governance that prevents master-copy drift (PR workflow, protected branch assumptions, changelog).
- This repo must NOT include any legacy artwork. Only new assets go in this repo.

DELIVERABLES:
1) Create the full repository file tree.
2) Provide the complete contents for every required file.
3) Ensure the repo builds locally and in GitHub Actions.
4) Ensure the build produces:
   - A static website (MkDocs)
   - A single combined PDF file generated from the site content, placed at a stable URL path in the published site (e.g., /downloads/curriculum.pdf).
5) Add a validation step that fails the build if the Golden Rule hours don’t total correctly.

TECH STACK:
- Python 3.11+
- MkDocs
- mkdocs-exporter plugin (PDF aggregation) with an aggregator output to downloads/curriculum.pdf
- Use a simple MkDocs theme that avoids decorative icons in page content (site UI icons are fine, but no icons inside curriculum text).
- Use GitHub Actions + actions/upload-pages-artifact + actions/deploy-pages.

REPO NAME SUGGESTION:
- curriculum-master

REPO STRUCTURE (REQUIRED):
/
  mkdocs.yml
  requirements.txt
  README.md
  CHANGELOG.md
  .gitignore
  scripts/
    validate_golden_rule.py
  curriculum_data/
    golden_rule_hours.yaml
  docs/
    index.md
    governance/
      00-governance.md
      01-change-control.md
    downloads/
      .gitkeep
    01-introduction-to-preapprenticeship/
      index.md
    02-professional-development-principles/
      index.md
      01-intro.md
      02-midterm.md
      03-final.md
    03-grit-growth-mindset/
      index.md
    04-successful-apprentice/
      index.md
    05-elevator-pitch/
      index.md
    06-resumes/
      index.md
    07-interviews/
      index.md
      01-interview-skills.md
      02-group-interviews.md
      03-mock-interviews.md
    08-applying-job-search/
      index.md
    09-financial-education/
      index.md
      01-money-mindset.md
    10-emotional-intelligence/
      index.md
    11-rise-up/
      index.md
    12-workers-comp-ui/
      index.md
    13-apprenticeship-portfolio/
      index.md
    14-individual-career-plan/
      index.md
    15-application-prep/
      index.md
    16-ace-instruction/
      index.md
    17-aces/
      index.md
    18-shop-introduction/
      index.md
    19-intro-construction-trades/
      index.md
    20-construction-trade-awareness/
      index.md
      01-poster-project.md
    21-labor-history/
      index.md
    22-hand-tools/
      index.md
    23-power-tools/
      index.md
    24-materials-knowledge/
      index.md
    25-measuring-tape/
      index.md
      01-exercises.md
    26-skills-projects/
      index.md
      01-crate-project.md
      02-concrete-project.md
      03-wall-project.md
      04-tiered-planter.md
      05-tote-box.md
    27-scaffolding/
      index.md
    28-ladder-safety/
      index.md
    29-clean-energy/
      index.md
    30-apprenticeship-tours/
      index.md
    31-worksite-tours/
      index.md
    32-speaker-presentations/
      index.md
    33-osha10/
      index.md
    34-forklift/
      index.md
    35-flagger/
      index.md
    36-physical-fitness/
      index.md
    37-nutrition/
      index.md
    38-math/
      index.md
  .github/
    workflows/
      pages.yml

GOLDEN RULE HOURS (MUST BE EXACT):
Core curriculum total: 240
Math: 40
Grand total: 280

Golden Rule mapping and hours:
- Introduction to Pre-Apprenticeship: 3
- Professional Development Principles: 3 (Intro 1, Midterm 1, Final 1)
- Grit, Growth Mindset: 1
- How to be a Successful Apprentice: 1
- Elevator Pitch: 2
- Resumes: 4 (4 x 1 hour)
- Interviews: 10 (Interview Skills 2, Group Interviews 2, Mock Interviews 6)
- Applying for Apprenticeships & Job Search: 3 (3 x 1 hour)
- Financial Education + Money Mindset: 3 (Financial Education 2, Money Mindset 1 as 4 x 15 min)
- Emotional Intelligence: 2
- RISE Up Advocacy and Bystander Intervention: 2
- Workers Compensation/Unemployment Insurance: 2
- Apprenticeship Portfolio: 4 (4 x 1 hour)
- Individual Career Plan: 3 (3 x 1 hour)
- Application Prep: 2 (2 x 1 hour)
- ACE Instruction: 4 (Week 1, 2 x 2 hours)
- ACES: 36 (2x weekly, 2 hours)
- Shop Introduction: 1
- Introduction to the Construction Trades: 2
- Construction Trade Awareness: 4 (Trade Awareness 2, Poster Project 2)
- Labor History: 1
- Hand Tools: 3 (3 x 1 hour)
- Power Tools: 3 (3 x 1 hour)
- Materials Knowledge: 1
- Measuring Tape: 2 (Intro 1, Exercises 1)
- Skills Projects (total): 42 (use subpages for projects but total bucket remains 42)
- Intro to Scaffolding: 2
- Ladder Safety: 1
- Intro to Clean Energy: 2
- Apprenticeship Tours: 20 (5 x 4 hours)
- Worksite Tours: 8 (2 x 4 hours)
- Speaker Presentations: 4 (2 x 2 hours)
- OSHA 10: 10 (2 days, 5 hours)
- Forklift Certification: 8 (1 day)
- Flagger Certification: 8 (1 day)
- Physical Fitness: 32 (32 x 1 hour)
- Nutrition: 1
- Math: 40

CONTENT RULES FOR ALL DOCS PAGES:
- No icons, no emojis, no decorative bullets.
- Each section index.md must start with:
  1) “Required Hours: X”
  2) “Session Pattern: …” (use the Golden Rule patterns)
  3) “Purpose”
  4) “Learning Outcomes”
  5) “Core Content” (placeholder text for now)
  6) “Deliverables” (placeholder text)
- For subpages (e.g., interviews submodules), include the same structure and list submodule hours.
- The 38-math/index.md must state Required Hours: 40 and include placeholders.

MKDOCS CONFIG REQUIREMENTS:
- mkdocs.yml must define site_name, nav that matches the folder order above, and a clean theme.
- Configure mkdocs-exporter:
  - Enable PDF export
  - Enable aggregator to output to: downloads/curriculum.pdf
  - Add a PDF stylesheet path (create it) that controls fonts and spacing.
- Put the generated PDF in the built site so it is downloadable from GitHub Pages.
- Add a link on the homepage to /downloads/curriculum.pdf.

PDF STYLING REQUIREMENTS:
- Provide a resources/stylesheets/pdf.scss (or equivalent) with:
  - Clean typography
  - Page breaks between major sections
  - Header/footer with title + page numbers
- Use only freely available fonts or system fonts by default. Do NOT add proprietary fonts.

VALIDATION SCRIPT REQUIREMENTS:
- scripts/validate_golden_rule.py reads curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml
- Validates:
  - Every bucket has hours_total.
  - If a bucket has subunits, sum(subunits) == hours_total.
  - Sum(core buckets excluding math) == 240.
  - Math == 40.
  - Total == 280.
- If validation fails, exit non-zero and print a clear error message.

GITHUB ACTIONS WORKFLOW REQUIREMENTS (pages.yml):
- On push to main and workflow_dispatch.
- Jobs:
  - build:
    - checkout
    - setup-python
    - pip install -r requirements.txt
    - install Playwright browsers/deps required by mkdocs-exporter (use python -m playwright install --with-deps chromium)
    - run validation script
    - mkdocs build --clean
    - upload artifact using actions/upload-pages-artifact (artifact path: site/)
  - deploy:
    - needs build
    - permissions: pages: write, id-token: write
    - deploy using actions/deploy-pages
- This should deploy to GitHub Pages via the official artifact workflow, not by pushing to gh-pages.

README REQUIREMENTS:
- Explain:
  - How to run locally
  - How PDFs are generated
  - How to add new curriculum content pages
  - Change control rules (PRs only)
  - Where the Golden Rule file lives and how it is enforced

CHANGELOG REQUIREMENTS:
- Add a template section for logging approved changes.

GOVERNANCE PAGES:
- docs/governance/00-governance.md: explains “single source of truth,” “no copies,” “PR required,” “release tags optional,” and “content must follow Golden Rule.”
- docs/governance/01-change-control.md: step-by-step workflow for proposing and approving changes, including “what to do when two docs conflict.”

AFTER YOU GENERATE EVERYTHING:
- Output the complete file tree
- Then output each file with full contents in code blocks, grouped by path.

Do not ask me questions. Make reasonable defaults. Follow requirements exactly.
Once Copilot generates the repo skeleton, you can start uploading the old docs here and we’ll do the actual content rewrite into those exact folders/pages, one bucket at a time, with the Golden Rule hours enforced.

You said:
ANEW_brand_guidelines.pdf
PDF
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 41s
Got it. This PDF is useful for one thing in the new build: visual standards (colors + typography). It also gives you the official Mission/Vision/Values text if you decide to publish that on the site.

Key items pulled from the brand guidelines
Typography

Brand typeface: Helvetica Neue 
ANEW_brand_guidelines


Practical note: Helvetica Neue won’t exist on every Windows machine unless it’s installed. For a GitHub Pages site, use a system font stack that prefers Helvetica Neue but falls back cleanly.

Color palette (use the WEB hex values)

Blue: #326691 
ANEW_brand_guidelines


Green: #3FAE49 
ANEW_brand_guidelines


Gray: #505858 
ANEW_brand_guidelines


Mission / Vision / Values (if you want them on the site)

Mission statement 
ANEW_brand_guidelines


Vision statement 
ANEW_brand_guidelines


Values list: Accountability, Teamwork, Respect, Excellence, Leadership, Making a Difference, People, Communication 
ANEW_brand_guidelines


How to apply this to the GitHub curriculum site (without importing old artwork)
Tell Copilot to update the repo build to include:

Add CSS files (site + PDF)

docs/stylesheets/extra.css

docs/stylesheets/pdf.css (or pdf.scss if your exporter supports SCSS; plain CSS is safest)

In mkdocs.yml, set:

extra_css:

stylesheets/extra.css

In extra.css, define the brand palette + font stack
Use:

font-family: "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; 
ANEW_brand_guidelines


CSS variables for the three hex colors above 
ANEW_brand_guidelines


Use the same palette in the PDF stylesheet
Set headings, rules, link color, table header background, etc. to those brand colors so the PDF and site match.

Exact “Copilot add-on prompt” to paste (this modifies the repo you already asked it to build)

Update the repo to follow ANEW Brand Standard Guidelines for typography and colors.

Brand typography:
- Primary typeface: Helvetica Neue (use system fallback stack: "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif).

Brand colors (WEB hex):
- Blue #326691
- Green #3FAE49
- Gray #505858

Implement:
1) Create docs/stylesheets/extra.css and docs/stylesheets/pdf.css.
2) In mkdocs.yml add:
   extra_css:
     - stylesheets/extra.css
3) In docs/stylesheets/extra.css:
   - Set body font-family to "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif.
   - Define :root CSS variables:
     --anew-blue: #326691;
     --anew-green: #3FAE49;
     --anew-gray: #505858;
   - Apply:
     - Headings use --anew-blue
     - Links use --anew-blue (hover can use --anew-green)
     - Table header background uses --anew-gray with white text
     - Use clean, non-decorative styling (no icons/emojis).
4) In docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:
   - Same font stack and CSS variables
   - Add page-break rules between major sections
   - Style H1/H2 with brand blue
   - Keep layout workbook-clean and readable.

Do NOT add any logos or legacy artwork files to the repo. Only apply typography + color.
If you want, the next upload should be the “old skeleton workbook” you mentioned. Then I’ll start mapping its content into your Golden Rule buckets and rewriting it into those GitHub pages while keeping everything consistent and current.


Sources
You said:
no, i am going to upload what i have. give me the subject matter, and im going to show u what we do currently and you are going to do a comparision to the old skeleton workbook. then we will talk about what we are going to upload into github
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 11s
Here’s the exact subject-matter checklist to upload so I can compare “what you do now” against the 2022 skeleton workbook (and your Golden Rule hour map) without missing anything.

Upload subjects (aligned to your Golden Rule buckets)

A) Program foundation and rules

Current student handbook or policies (attendance, tardy, conduct, discipline, makeups, cert rules)

Current daily schedule template and weekly pacing calendar (if you have one)

Any current “student expectations” / learning contract (your modern version of 3P’s & W, if it exists)

B) Professional Development block
4. Introduction to Pre-Apprenticeship (3 hrs) current lesson/slide/handouts
5. Professional Development Principles: Intro, Midterm, Final (1 hr each) current materials
6. Grit, Growth Mindset (1 hr)
7. How to be a Successful Apprentice (1 hr)
8. Elevator Pitch (2 hrs)
9. Resumes (4 hrs total; any templates, rubrics, sample resumes)
10. Interviews (10 hrs total): Interview Skills, Group Interviews, Mock Interviews (slides, question banks, rubrics)
11. Applying for Apprenticeships & Job Search (3 hrs)
12. Financial Education + Money Mindset (3 hrs)
13. Emotional Intelligence (2 hrs)
14. RISE Up Advocacy and Bystander Intervention (2 hrs)
15. Workers Compensation / Unemployment Insurance (2 hrs)
16. Apprenticeship Portfolio (4 hrs)
17. Individual Career Plan (3 hrs)
18. Application Prep (2 hrs)

C) ACE and ACES block
19. ACE Instruction (4 hrs) current station instruction materials
20. ACES (36 hrs) current station circuit practice plans, score sheets, timing standards, retest rules

D) Shop and trade curriculum
21. Shop Introduction (1 hr)
22. Introduction to the Construction Trades (2 hrs)
23. Construction Trade Awareness + Poster Project (4 hrs) current deliverables and rubric
24. Labor History (1 hr)
25. Hand Tools (3 hrs)
26. Power Tools (3 hrs)
27. Materials Knowledge (1 hr)
28. Measuring Tape: Intro + Exercises (2 hrs) all worksheets/tests/answer keys you currently use
29. Skills Projects (42 hrs): crate, concrete, wall, tiered planter, tote box (whatever you actually do now, even if it’s different names)
30. Intro to Scaffolding (2 hrs)
31. Ladder Safety (1 hr)
32. Intro to Clean Energy (2 hrs)

E) Tours and speakers
33. Apprenticeship Tours (20 hrs): how you schedule, prep sheets, reflection assignments
34. Worksite Tours (8 hrs): same
35. Speaker Presentations (4 hrs): speaker topics, prep questions, reflection assignment

F) Certifications
36. OSHA 10 (10 hrs): how you deliver it now (even if third-party), plus your prep/attendance rules
37. Forklift Certification (8 hrs): your current deck/handouts/test
38. Flagger Certification (8 hrs): current process/materials

G) Physical fitness and nutrition
39. Physical Fitness (32 hrs): workout plans, tracking sheets, test-out metrics
40. Nutrition (1 hr): current lesson/handouts

H) Math (40 hrs)
41. Current math curriculum: modules, worksheets, pacing, assessments

I) Assessment and proof (this is what makes comparison clean)
42. Current rubrics (resume, mock interview, poster, projects, portfolio, ACES scoring)
43. Any current required forms students submit (logs, reflections, checklists, portfolio checklist)
44. Any “completion requirements” list (what defines graduation now)

How I’ll compare to the 2022 skeleton workbook
For each subject above, I’ll produce a simple comparison result:

Matches skeleton (same intent)

Updated from skeleton (new approach, same slot)

Missing compared to skeleton (skeleton had it, current doesn’t)

Added beyond skeleton (current has it, skeleton didn’t)

Conflicts (policies/hours/content disagree across docs)

Then we decide what becomes GitHub content, what gets rewritten, and what gets retired.

Upload in any order. If you want the fastest start, begin with: current handbook/policies, ACES materials, Skills Projects, and Math. Those four usually contain the biggest “drift.”

You said:
Student Handbook Final.docx
Document
here is our current handbook. super lacking and i hate it. but never the less. here it is. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 7m 4s
Here’s what’s actually in your current handbook (Student Handbook Final.docx), and why it feels thin.

1) Subject matter in the current handbook (what it covers)
A. Mission/vision/values + contact
Mission is presented as the single line “Building People, Building Communities.” 
Student Handbook Final


Vision statement + a short set of values (Diversity/Representation, Growth/Learning, Partnerships, Intentionality, Innovation/Collective Impact). 
Student Handbook Final


“Training Staff Contact Information” appears to list only one person (Karen Dove) with a title and contact info. 
Student Handbook Final


B. Program overview + structure (the “what is this program” piece)
Describes the program as a 280-hour pre-apprenticeship designed to prepare people for construction craft trades and apprenticeships. 
Student Handbook Final


Program structure is described as variable (either 12 weeks/3 days per week or 9 weeks/4 days per week), plus 10 hours outside class (service learning + speed mentoring). 
Student Handbook Final


C. Dimensions + hours (the “bucket list”)
Lists Dimensions 1–6 with hours totaling 280:

D1 Professional Development 45

D2 ACES 40

D3 Career Exploration 96

D4 Math 40

D5 Safety Certs 26

D6 Physical Fitness 33 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 7 (outside hours) is 10 hours. 
Student Handbook Final


D. Outcomes (high-level promises)
Includes a narrative “Student Outcomes” section (competitive edge, safety/fitness, competency validation, math proficiency, professional development, foundational skills). 
Student Handbook Final


E. Dimension descriptions (high-level only)
D1–D3 are described in general terms (employment readiness, financial literacy, self-advocacy, mentoring, conflict resolution; ACES practice model; realistic site experiences). 
Student Handbook Final


F. Dimension 7 details (this is one of the only places with real “units”)
Dimension 7 breaks into Unit 1 Service Learning (8 hours) and Unit 2 Speed Mentoring (2 hours). 
Student Handbook Final


G. Graduation requirements + discipline system
“Successful Completion and Graduation” requirements include: math thresholds, ACE/projects pass %, fitness test, PD assignments on time, no more than 3 missed days, drug screening, and fewer than 10 demerits. 
Student Handbook Final


Self-Eliminating Demerit System: 18 demerits, notification within 24 hours, refusal to sign triggers an additional demerit, 10 demerits = dismissal. 
Student Handbook Final


2) Comparison to the old “skeleton workbook” (ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_Rv. 2022)
The biggest reason your current handbook feels lacking
The 2022 workbook spells out the curriculum as units with hours. Your current handbook mostly stops at dimension labels + vague descriptions.

Example: 2022 Dimension 1 is fully unitized (PDPs, grit, elevator pitch, resumes, interviews with sub-parts, job search, financial tools, Lavender, RISE Up, Workers Comp/UI, portfolio) with hour counts. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Current handbook does not provide that unit list for Dimensions 1–6 (it only provides unit structure for Dimension 7). 
Student Handbook Final


Program structure: stable vs. “depends”
2022 workbook states: Total Course Hours 280 and Total Course Days 35, plus the 10 outside hours. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Current handbook states 280 hours but says schedule format varies by cohort (12 weeks/3 days or 9 weeks/4 days). 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension hours changed (this matters for compliance and internal consistency)
2022 totals: D1 34, D2 56, D3 90, D4 40, D5 26, D6 34. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Current totals: D1 45, D2 40, D3 96, D4 40, D5 26, D6 33. 
Student Handbook Final


Net changes (Current minus 2022):

D1 +11, D2 -16, D3 +6, D4 0, D5 0, D6 -1.

Shop / exploration detail: present in 2022, basically absent in current
2022 breaks Dimension 3 into Shop Instruction Units (Orientation/Industry Awareness, Trade Awareness, Labor History, Hand Tools, Power Tools, Materials, Tape Measure, Skills Projects) plus Tours/Worksite tours with hours. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Current handbook only gives a narrative about “realistic experiences” and career exploration with no unit map or hour distribution. 
Student Handbook Final


Attendance / expectations: different system and different standard
2022 includes a detailed attendance policy with “expectation is 100% attendance,” definitions for excused/unexcused, tardy conversion, no-show/no-call, illness note rules, etc. 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Current handbook’s graduation requirement is “Not miss more than three (3) days of programming,” tied to demerits, but it doesn’t include the same operational definitions in that graduation section. 
Student Handbook Final


Drug screening standard changed (this is a real policy difference)
2022: THC under a stated cutoff can participate, and a follow-up week 4 “must be lower.” 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Current: if THC is positive, the follow-up test “must test negative.” 
Student Handbook Final


3) Bottom line: what’s “missing” (why it reads like a brochure + a punishment chart)
Compared to the 2022 workbook, your current handbook is missing (or doesn’t consistently include):

Unit-by-unit curriculum map and hour allocations for Dimensions 1–6 (the 2022 workbook has this). 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Concrete shop/trade-awareness scope and sequencing (2022 spells it out). 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Operational definitions for attendance and how it’s measured (2022 is specific; current mostly asserts requirements). 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…

 
Student Handbook Final


A full contact list (current shows a table but appears largely empty except one entry). 
Student Handbook Final


If you want this to function as a real handbook (not a vibes document + a demerit guillotine), the next rebuild step is straightforward: take the current dimension-hour “golden rule” structure, then re-add the unit-level specificity the 2022 workbook had—updated to your current hour totals and your real delivery model.


Sources
You said:
give me all the subparts so i can see what it says. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 2m 7s
Here are all the sections (“subparts”) in your current Student Handbook and what each one actually says, pulled straight from Student Handbook Final.docx.

ANEW Pre-Apprenticeship Program Handbook (Current)
1) Mission, Vision, Values
Mission: “Building People, Building Communities” 
Student Handbook Final


Vision: “We envision inclusive, sustainable, and economically just communities.” 
Student Handbook Final


Values (with the one-line explanations included in the handbook):

Diversity and Representation (“If you can see it, you can be it.”) 
Student Handbook Final


Growth and Continuous Learning 
Student Handbook Final


Collaborative Strategic Partnerships 
Student Handbook Final


Intentionality and Mindfulness 
Student Handbook Final


Innovative Response and Collective Impact 
Student Handbook Final


2) Training Staff Contact Information
A contact table exists (Name / Position / Email / Phone), but it’s basically empty except:

Karen Dove, CEO with email + phone listed 
Student Handbook Final

 
Student Handbook Final


3) “Anew Pre-apprenticeship” (Program overview)
States the goal: equip students with competencies to excel in workforce + pursue apprenticeships/family-wage construction careers 
Student Handbook Final


Says the program is 280 hours and balances classroom + hands-on training; curriculum aligned with apprenticeship programs and employers 
Student Handbook Final


4) Program Structure
Total Course Hours: 280 
Student Handbook Final


Cohort formats vary: 12 weeks / 3 days or 9 weeks / 4 days 
Student Handbook Final


Additional required hours outside class: 10 hours

Speed mentoring 2 hours; Service Learning 8 hours 
Student Handbook Final


5) Program Dimensions (the handbook’s “big buckets”)
Dimension 1: Professional Development Practices — 45 hrs 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 2: Apprenticeship Competency Evaluations — 40 hrs 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 3: Construction Career Exploration — 96 hrs 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 4: Math Skills — 40 hrs 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 5: Safety Certifications — 26 hrs 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 6: Physical Fitness — 33 hrs 
Student Handbook Final


Total: 280 hrs 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 7: Service Learning + Speed Mentoring — 10 hrs 
Student Handbook Final


6) Student Outcomes
Lists outcomes like competitive edge/confidence, safety/fitness, pass competency evals, math proficiency, professional development principles, foundational construction skills exposure 
Student Handbook Final


7) Dimension Descriptions (narrative explanations)
Dimension 1 description (employment readiness, financial literacy, self-advocacy, speed mentoring, conflict resolution, etc.) 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 2 describes the ACE/ACES model and practice regimen tied to partner entry tests 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 3 describes project-based skills + visits to training centers and jobsites 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 4 describes construction-context math integration 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 5 describes safety culture + safety certifications 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 6 describes daily fitness routine + nutrition education 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 7 describes service learning + speed mentoring “social gathering with dinner” format 
Student Handbook Final


8) Outside of Programming Hours / Additional Units
Re-states 10 hours outside programming and breaks it into:

Service Learning (Required) — 8 hours 
Student Handbook Final


Speed Mentoring (Required) — 2 hours 
Student Handbook Final


Also says students will have homework/tasks outside program hours 
Student Handbook Final


9) Successful Completion and Graduation (requirements list)
To complete, the handbook says students must do things like:

Math at 70% (but 80% for electrical/plumbing)

Construction skills ACEs/projects at 70%

Pass physical fitness test

Complete PD assignments on time

Miss no more than 3 days

Pass drug screening

Not receive 10+ demerits 
Student Handbook Final


10) ANEW Self-Eliminating Demerit System
Includes:

Purpose + application 
Student Handbook Final


Rules for assignment + notification in 24 hours + student signature requirement 
Student Handbook Final


Refusal to sign = extra demerit 
Student Handbook Final


10 demerits total = dismissal 
Student Handbook Final


Appeals/dispute path (staff member → Program Director or CEO) 
Student Handbook Final


Special circumstances list + the “still can’t miss more than 3 days total” rule 
Student Handbook Final


11) Demerit Codes and Descriptions (18-code list)
Lists all demerits and point values, including:

Phone/visitor/dress policy violation (1)

Homework late (1)

PPE failure (1)

Late/leave early (2)

Absent full day (3)

No-call/no-show (5)

Safety instruction violation (5)

Harassment policy violation (10)

Physical altercation (10)

Weapons (10)

Controlled substances/alcohol (10)
…and all others 
Student Handbook Final


12) Breaks & Lunch
Rules about bringing lunch, not eating in class (water ok), phone use only on breaks, returning late impacts attendance score 
Student Handbook Final


13) Work Clothes and Personal Appearance
No baggy clothes/open-toed/jewelry; clean/neat; tank tops not allowed; shorts/yoga pants only for fitness; PPE list; hair pulled back; no gang colors 
Student Handbook Final


14) Support Services
Says support services matter; request through coordinator; gas card receipt required to keep receiving transportation support 
Student Handbook Final


15) Transportation and Campus Parking
Students responsible for commute; ANEW transport may be offered sometimes; riding requires signing a release 
Student Handbook Final


16) Cell Phones and Texting
Cell use prohibited during class except taking notes; distraction can cause injury 
Student Handbook Final


17) Smoking
No smoking in buildings or within 25 feet; don’t litter; no smoking on offsite trips 
Student Handbook Final


18) Changes in Personal Situation
Requires reporting changes (housing, visa, SNAP, disability/injury, childcare, transportation) 
Student Handbook Final


19) Student Rights
Lists student rights: safety, respect, equal opportunity, clear communication, support/resources, reporting without retaliation, participation, fair assessment, privacy, drug-free environment 
Student Handbook Final


Also defines unsafe/unacceptable behavior and says violators can be removed; ANEW can remove if safety threat 
Student Handbook Final


20) Drug Testing and Drug/Alcohol Free Environment
Requires two drug tests (scheduled at start + random before end) 
Student Handbook Final


THC-positive initial test may allow participation with follow-up negative required 
Student Handbook Final


Drugs/alcohol not allowed on any training site/field trips; possession/under influence = dismissal; also bans bringing legal/prescription marijuana 
Student Handbook Final


21) Student Injury
Must report immediately; injury report; ANEW doesn’t pay medical costs; medical release form required to resume; major injury impact can mean dismissal + re-enroll later 
Student Handbook Final


22) Weapons Free Facility + Searches
Weapons prohibited; defines “training facility” and “dangerous weapons” broadly 
Student Handbook Final


ANEW reserves right to search vehicles, bags, lockers, etc.; refusal = discipline up to termination 
Student Handbook Final


23) Serious Misconduct
Lists examples like falsifying records, theft, misuse/abuse of property, drugs/alcohol, weapons, confidentiality violations with RCW/WAC cite, insubordination, endangering safety, harassment 
Student Handbook Final


24) Grievance Procedures
Step-by-step grievance process:

Informal attempt first 
Student Handbook Final


Formal written grievance within 30 days with required info 
Student Handbook Final


Acknowledgment within 5 business days 
Student Handbook Final


Investigation; response within 20 business days after acknowledgment (or notify delay) 
Student Handbook Final


25) Acknowledgment of Handbook Policies (signature)
Student acknowledges receipt/understanding and agrees to abide; signature/name lines 
Student Handbook Final


26) Releases and Agreements (student agrees to…)
Photo and website release 
Student Handbook Final


Consent to release confidential information to funders/partners 
Student Handbook Final


Release of liability (assumption of risk, waiver, indemnification, emergency treatment permission, compliance) + signature lines 
Student Handbook Final


27) Code of Conduct Agreement (signature)
Eight categories:

Respect/professionalism 
Student Handbook Final


Attendance/punctuality 
Student Handbook Final


Safety compliance 
Student Handbook Final


Academic integrity 
Student Handbook Final


Substance-free environment 
Student Handbook Final


Property/equipment care 
Student Handbook Final


Conflict resolution 
Student Handbook Final


Confidentiality 
Student Handbook Final


Then the acknowledgement + signature lines 
Student Handbook Final


If you want the fastest comparison later: this handbook is mostly “program description + discipline + policies + signatures.” It does not lay out your actual instructional content sequence the way the 2022 workbook does (it gestures at “dimensions” but doesn’t map the day-to-day curriculum).


Sources
You said:
no what i mean was this. Example: 2022 Dimension 1 is fully unitized (PDPs, grit, elevator pitch, resumes, interviews with sub-parts, job search, financial tools, Lavender, RISE Up, Workers Comp/UI, portfolio) with hour counts. 

1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Current handbook does not provide that unit list for Dimensions 1–6 (it only provides unit structure for Dimension 7). 

Student Handbook Final
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 4m 6s

Thought for 1m 42s
Here are the actual “subparts” (units) as written in the 2022 ANEW P.A. Student Workbook (Rv. 2022), plus what the current Student Handbook Final does (and does not) provide.

2022 Student Workbook (Rv. 2022): Units (subparts) by Dimension
Program Dimensions (hour totals)
Dimension 1: Professional Development and Personal Development Practices — 34 hours

Dimension 2: Apprenticeship Competency Evaluations — 56 hours

Dimension 3: Construction Career Exploration — 90 hours

Dimension 4: Math Skills — 40 hours

Dimension 5: Safety Certifications — 26 hours

Dimension 6: Physical Fitness — 34 hours

Dimension 7: Service Learning and Speed Mentoring (outside of program hours) — 10 hours 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Dimension 1: Professional Development Units (34 hours)
Unit 1: PDP’s — 4 hours

Unit 2: Grit, Growth Mindset — 1 hour

Unit 3: Elevator Pitch — 2 hour

Unit 4: Resumes — 2 hours

Unit 5: Interviews — 12 hours

Interview Skills — 3 hours

Group Interviews — 3 hours

Mock Interviews — 6 hours

Unit 6: Applying for Apprenticeships & Job Search — 2 hours

Unit 7: Financial Tools for the Trades & Money Mindset — 5 hours

Unit 8: Lavender Rights Project (outside pres.) — 2 hours

Unit 9: RISE Up Training — 2 hours

Unit 10: Workers Compensation/Unemployment Insurance (outside pres.) — 1 hours

Unit 11: Apprenticeship Portfolio — 1 hours 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Dimension 2: Apprenticeship Competency Evaluation Units (56 hours)
Unit 1: Station Instruction and Teaching (Week 1–2) — 2 hours

Unit 2: Station Circuit Practice — 54 hours 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Dimension 3: Construction Career Exploration (90 hours)
Shop Instruction Units — 60 hours

Unit 1: Orientation and Industry Awareness — 8 hours

Unit 2: Shop Introduction — 2 hours

Unit 3: Construction Skills — 16 hours

Unit 4: Measuring Tape — 4 hours

Unit 5: Power Tools — 12 hours

Unit 6: Hand Tools — 8 hours

Unit 7: Construction Trade Awareness — 8 hours

Unit 8: Labor History — 2 hours

Trades Rotation Units — 30 hours

Unit 1: Apprenticeship Tours — 24 hours

Unit 2: Worksite Tours — 6 hours 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Dimension 4: Math Skills (40 hours)
Trades Math Units — 40 hours

Unit 1: Building Trades Math — 40 hours 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Dimension 5: Safety Certifications (26 hours)
Certification Units — 26 hours

Unit 1: OSHA 10 — 10 hours

Unit 2: Forklift Certification — 8 hours

Unit 3: Flagger Certification — 8 hours 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Dimension 6: Physical Fitness (34 hours)
Physical Fitness Units — 34 hours

Unit 1: Physical Fitness — 33 hours

Unit 2: Nutrition — 1 hour 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Dimension 7: Service Learning & Speed Mentoring (10 hours, outside programming)
Additional Units — 10 hours

Unit 1: Service Learning — Required — 8 hours

Unit 2: Speed Mentoring — Required — 2 hours 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…


Current Student Handbook Final: what it shows
The Student Handbook Final lists Dimension hour totals, but it does not provide the “Unit 1 / Unit 2 / etc.” breakdown for Dimensions 1–6 the way the 2022 workbook does. It just gives narrative descriptions after the totals. 
Student Handbook Final


It does explicitly break out the Dimension 7 subparts (Service Learning 8 hours, Speed Mentoring 2 hours). 
Student Handbook Final


Quick mismatch (hours): 2022 Workbook vs Current Handbook
Dimension 1: 34 vs 45 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…

 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 2: 56 vs 40 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…

 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 3: 90 vs 96 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…

 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 4: 40 vs 40 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…

 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 5: 26 vs 26 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…

 
Student Handbook Final


Dimension 6: 34 vs 33 
1. ANEW P.A. Student Workbook_R…

 
Student Handbook Final


One more thing: I tried to save your “golden rule” outline to long-term memory and the system rejected it (“bio tool incompatible”), so it’s not stored on my side. If you want it preserved in a way I can reliably pull later, paste it into a doc and upload it here, and I’ll treat that uploaded file as the source of truth.


Sources
You said:
i saved it in a different chat. can you pull it now
ChatGPT said:
No. I can’t reach into a different chat and pull content from it.

I only have access to:

What’s in this conversation thread

What you upload here

Whatever is already in long-term memory (and in this thread, memory saving is blocked anyway)

Fastest fix: paste the Golden Rule text here (or upload it as a doc/PDF). Then I’ll lock it in as the working constitution for this build and use it to compare every upload, bucket by bucket, hour-accurate.

You said:
even if its stored to memory?
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 14s
Yes — if it was actually saved to long-term memory, I can use it in this chat.

And I can see a “Golden Rule” hours baseline in memory right now. Here’s the version I have:

Golden Rule curriculum hours (baseline)

Introduction to Pre-Apprenticeship: 3h

Professional Development Principles: 3h (Intro 1h, Mid 1h, Final 1h)

Grit/Growth Mindset: 1h

How to be a Successful Apprentice: 1h

Elevator Pitch: 2h

Resumes: 4h (4 × 1h)

Interviews: 10h (Interview Skills 2h, Group Interviews 2h, Mock Interviews 6h)

Applying for Apprenticeships & Job Search: 3h (3 × 1h)

Financial Education + Money Mindset: 3h (2h + 4 × 15 min)

Emotional Intelligence: 2h

RISE Up Advocacy & Bystander Intervention: 2h

Workers Compensation/Unemployment Insurance: 2h

Apprenticeship Portfolio: 4h (4 × 1h)

Individual Career Plan: 3h (3 × 1h)

Application Prep: 2h (2 × 1h)

ACE Instruction: 4h (Week 1, 2 × 2h)

ACES: 36h (2× weekly, 2h)

Shop Introduction: 1h

Introduction to the Construction Trades: 2h

Construction Trade Awareness + Poster Project: 4h (2h + 2h)

Labor History: 1h

Hand Tools: 3h (3 × 1h)

Power Tools: 3h (3 × 1h)

Materials Knowledge: 1h

Intro to Measuring Tape + Exercises: 2h (1h + 1h)

Skills Projects: 42h (Crate / Concrete / Wall / Tiered Planter / Tote Box) as a 42h bucket

Intro to Scaffolding: 2h

Ladder Safety: 1h

Intro to Clean Energy: 2h

Apprenticeship Tours: 20h (5 × 4h)

Worksite Tours: 8h (2 × 4h)

Speaker Presentations: 4h (2 × 2h)

OSHA 10: 10h (2 days, 5h)

Forklift Certification: 8h (1 day)

Flagger Certification: 8h (1 day)

Physical Fitness: 32h (32 × 1h)

Nutrition: 1h

Totals:

Curriculum (non-math): 240h

Math: 40h

Total: 280h

So yes: I can “pull it” if it’s in memory — and this is what I’ve got.

You said:
okay now that you can see that, you can see what we are teaching. so now we can move forward. where do you want to start. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 39s
Start with the stuff that, if it’s wrong, makes everything else wrong.

Step 1: Lock the “constitution”
We create one master page called something like “Golden Rule Curriculum Map” and it becomes the reference for every rewrite:

Every bucket + required hours + session pattern

What counts as “in-class hours” vs “outside/program support”

A simple rule: if content doesn’t fit a bucket, it doesn’t get taught unless you intentionally reallocate hours

Output you’ll get from me:

A clean, GitHub-ready outline (folder + page names) that matches your Golden Rule exactly.

Step 2: Fix the rules of the world (handbook/policies)
Your current handbook is basically: mission + a few promises + demerits + signatures. The 2022 workbook has way more operational clarity. Before we rewrite lessons, we rebuild the handbook so staff and students aren’t guessing.

Output you’ll get from me:

A “Handbook vNext” draft that keeps only what’s still valid, removes contradictions, and restores the missing operational definitions (attendance, tardy, excused vs unexcused, makeup rules, cert rules, etc.) without dragging old/outdated stuff forward.

Step 3: Start rebuilding curriculum content in the order that reduces drift fastest
After the constitution + policies are solid, we build the actual curriculum pages. Best order:

ACES + ACE Instruction (because this is where programs quietly drift and nobody notices until test-out)

Skills Projects (42 hours is a monster; it needs clean scope and deliverables)

Math (40 hours needs a clear pacing spine)

Professional Development block (PDP/Resumes/Interviews etc.) because it’s easiest to rewrite cleanly once the structure is set

What I want you to upload next (so we can actually compare “what you teach now” to the 2022 skeleton)

Current ACES materials (station instructions, score sheets, timing standards, retest rules)

Current Skills Projects packet(s) (crate/wall/concrete/whatever you actually run now, even if names changed)

Current Math outline or unit list (even if it’s rough)

Once those three are in, I’ll produce a tight comparison against the 2022 workbook:

Same

Changed

Missing

Added

Conflicts that require a decision

Then we move to GitHub with confidence instead of vibes.

You said:
lets worry about math last. math is done by the math instructor so that is on them. i do want to split this into two sides. the shop instruction side and the professional development side. i will start uploading what i got. what we need to do is focus on the hours. for example lets focus on grit growth mindset next and then i will show u the issues. i will upload the content and then you will see that there is no way in hell we can teach all that in 1 hour. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 10s
Good. We’ll park Math.

We’ll split the whole rebuild into two lanes and never mix them up unless you tell me to:

Professional Development lane
Everything from PDP through Workers Comp/UI, Portfolio, ICP, etc. (your Golden Rule list).

Shop Instruction lane
ACE/ACES + shop intro, tools, measuring, projects, scaffolding, ladder, tours, certs, fitness, nutrition.

Now we start exactly where you said: Grit & Growth Mindset (1 hour). And yes, I fully expect the current content is bloated beyond what one hour can hold.

Upload for Grit/Growth Mindset
Send anything you currently use, in any format:

Slides, handouts, worksheets, videos/links list, speaker notes, facilitator guide

Any “required outcomes” language you’re expected to hit

Any assignments or reflection prompts tied to it

What I’ll deliver back (hour-locked)
I will not change the 1-hour rule. Instead I’ll produce three things:

One-hour teach plan (60 minutes, runnable)

Required Hours: 1

Purpose (one paragraph)

Learning outcomes (3–5 max)

Minute-by-minute agenda (0–60)

Exactly what gets said/taught (tight bullets, not fluffy)

One quick check-for-understanding (2–5 minutes)

One deliverable (if you want one) that fits inside the hour

Scope cut list (the “no way in hell” proof)

Everything in your uploaded content that cannot fit in 1 hour

Marked as: Cut / Move / Optional homework

Re-home map (so content doesn’t disappear, it relocates)
For anything we cut, I’ll show where it belongs instead, based on your Golden Rule buckets. Example:

Mindset + self-talk → Emotional Intelligence

Goal setting / long-term planning → Individual Career Plan

Workplace resilience behaviors → Successful Apprentice / PDP

Advocacy when things go sideways → RISE Up

That way you’re not losing content, you’re enforcing reality.

Go ahead and upload the Grit/Growth Mindset materials. Once I see them, I’ll do the first hour-locked rebuild and the cut/move map.

You said:
Uploaded image
Being-Gritty-Fillable-Form (1) (1).pdf
PDF
Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth Mindset.docx
Document
Sista download - Video.mp4
File
Understanding-Grit.pptx
Presentation
W1 - Being-Gritty.pdf
PDF
W1 - Grit-and-Growth-Mindset-Logic-Model.pdf
PDF
W1 - Grit-Growth-Mindset-and-Math-Anxiety.pptx
Presentation
W1 - Grit-Growth-Mindset-and-Math-Anxiety-Instructor-Manual.pdf
PDF
i have a lot to upload so dont do anything until i tell you do do something. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 6s
Understood. I won’t analyze or start mapping anything yet.

I see the uploads are in here (Grit/Growth module procedures, handouts, logic model PDFs, two slide decks, a video, and the image). When you tell me “go,” I’ll start with whatever specific output you want (hour-check, scope cut, 60-minute teach plan, or comparison to the 2022 skeleton).

You said:
Cultivating-Grit-and-a-Growth-Mindset.pptx
Presentation
W1 - Grit-and-Growth-Mindset-Logic-Model.pdf
PDF
Grit-Growth-Mindset-and-Math-Anxiety.pptx
Presentation
IEP & Goals PowerPoint.pptx
Presentation
Understanding-Grit.pptx
Presentation
P1.2.1 Grit-Growth Mindset.doc
Document
Module Outline Review for Grit Growth Mindset.docx
Document
Module Procedures- Grit-Growth Mindset.doc
Document
Module Procedures- Grit-Growth Mindset.docx
Document
1Export Summary


i think that is it
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 29s
I have the Grit/Growth Mindset packet set.

Files received (Grit/Growth lane)

Slide decks: Cultivating Grit and a Growth Mindset.pptx; Understanding-Grit.pptx; Grit-Growth-Mindset-and-Math-Anxiety.pptx; Grit & Growth Mindset.pptx 
Cultivating-Grit-and-a-Growth-M…

 
Grit-Growth-Mindset-and-Math-An…

 
Understanding-Grit


Module procedures (multiple versions): Module Procedures- Grit-Growth Mindset (.doc and .docx); P1.2.1 Grit-Growth Mindset.doc; Module Outline Review for Grit Growth Mindset.docx 
Module Outline Review for Grit …

 
Module Procedures- Grit-Growth …

 
Module Procedures- Grit-Growth …


Handouts/worksheets: Being-Gritty.pdf; Being-Gritty Fillable Form.pdf; Logic Model.pdf 
W1 - Grit-and-Growth-Mindset-Lo…


Related: IEP & Goals PowerPoint.pptx; Sequence of Instruction MASTER.xlsx; Sista download - Video.mp4

One immediate conflict I can already see (before doing any restructuring)

Your module procedures for Grit/Growth list “TIME REQUIRED: 2 hours.” 
Module Outline Review for Grit …

 
Module Procedures- Grit-Growth …


That supports your point that it won’t fit the Golden Rule 1-hour slot.

Tell me “go” and which output you want first:

Option A: 60-minute teach plan (minute-by-minute, runnable)

Option B: scope-cut list (what cannot fit in 1 hour) + “move-to” map into other Golden Rule buckets

Option C: both A and B in one package


Sources
You said:
well we have an hour. i dont know how they expect anything to be done in an hour, so i guess what makes the most sense is to take what is most impactful. we are not allowed to show the sista video anymore so thats out. but i guess we can kinda see which stupid module proceedure to follow?
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 1m 29s
Use the one that already admits it’s a 1-hour module:

“Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth Mindset.docx” is the only procedure in your packet that is explicitly written as TIME REQUIRED: 1 Hour. That makes it the only one that matches your Golden Rule without pretending. 
Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth…


Ignore (for this 1-hour slot) the versions that are built for longer:

The other “Module Procedures” versions are written as TIME REQUIRED: 2 hours. That directly conflicts with your Golden Rule. 
Module Procedures- Grit-Growth …


P1.2.1 Grit-Growth Mindset


The “Grit, Growth Mindset, and Math Anxiety” instructor manual is scoped at 1 hour 35 minutes and includes math anxiety outcomes—so it’s not a 1-hour Grit/Growth lesson anyway. 
W1 - Grit-Growth-Mindset-and-Ma…


Now the real problem: even the “1 Hour” module procedure still doesn’t fit as written.
It tries to run three videos with listed durations:

Famous Failures (2:58) 
Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth…


Duckworth TED (6:13) 
Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth…


Trevor Ragan Growth Mindset (8:25) 
Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth…


That’s 17 minutes 36 seconds of video before you’ve done discussion, definitions, and the worksheet. So the fix is simple: one video max.

My recommendation for the 1-hour “most impactful” version

Keep as your official procedure: “Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth Mindset.docx” (because it matches the 1-hour requirement on paper). 
Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth…


Run it in a trimmed “field version”:

Keep Duckworth (6:13) as the only video (it’s the best bang-for-time for defining grit). 
Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth…


Teach Fixed vs Growth with your own quick explanation (the procedure already includes definitions you can read straight off). 
Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth…


Use the “Being Gritty” worksheet as the deliverable (it’s aligned to the module and forces reflection fast). 
W1 - Being-Gritty


Slide choice (so you’re not chained to YouTube)
If you want the lesson to feel like “this is about construction,” use the “Understanding-Grit.pptx” language because it already ties grit to physical demands, skill-building, and taking feedback. 
Understanding-Grit


Bottom line: follow the 1-hour procedures doc as the “official” procedure, but you’ll need to rewrite it into a 1-hour executable version by cutting the extra videos and tightening the worksheet portion. The 2-hour procedures and the 1:35 manual are not compatible with your Golden Rule hour cap. 
Module Procedures ~ Grit Growth…


Module Procedures- Grit-Growth …


W1 - Grit-Growth-Mindset-and-Ma…



Sources
You said:
this is from my google classroom, i normally teach from here. do you have these documents or do you need me to upload them. 
ChatGPT said:
You said:
Uploaded image
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 10s
I only have what you’ve uploaded into this chat. I can’t see inside your Google Classroom unless you upload the files (or paste the content).

From your Google Classroom list, here’s what I already have in this chat:

Module Procedures for Grit/Growth (multiple versions: .doc/.docx)

Being Gritty (PDF + fillable form)

Understanding Grit PowerPoint (pptx)

Here’s what I do not have yet (based on that screenshot list):

Grit Growth Mindset Web Page (Sway)

Commit to Grit Assignment

Growth Mindset Introduction Assignment

If you upload those three (or export/download them and upload the files here), I can compare your “what you actually teach from Classroom” version against the older skeleton workbook and then compress it into a true 1-hour deliverable without losing the point.

You said:
https://sway.cloud.microsoft/lPKzeoIQ9AtEHfwx?ref=Link
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 43s
I do not have access to your Google Classroom materials unless you upload them here.

I already have these from your screenshot list (they’re in this chat as files):

Module Procedures for Grit/Growth Mindset (multiple versions)

Being Gritty Assignment (PDF + fillable)

Understanding Grit PowerPoint (PPTX)

I do not have these yet:

Commit to Grit Assignment

Growth Mindset Introduction Assignment

The Sway page content (I cannot fetch that link from here; the web tool fails to retrieve it)

What to do for the Sway page
Export it and upload the export here. Microsoft confirms Sway can be exported to Word or PDF (or printed). 

Fastest method:

In Sway: Export → PDF (or Word), download, then upload the file here. 

If export is acting up: use your browser Print → “Save as PDF,” then upload that PDF. 

Once you upload those missing items, I’ll treat your Google Classroom set as “current teaching reality” and compress it into a true 60-minute Grit/Growth lesson that still hits the highest-impact outcomes.

You said:
MODULE PROCEDURES.pdf
PDF
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 29s
Received. MODULE PROCEDURES.pdf is a 1-page capture of your Sway module procedures, and it explicitly states Time Required: 1 Hour and lists the high-level “What You’ll Learn” outcomes (discover what grit is, explore differences, connect to professional success, reflect on growth mindset, etc.). 
MODULE PROCEDURES


Important limitation: this PDF appears to be a partial/trimmed export (the text is cut off and it doesn’t include the full step-by-step procedure). So it’s useful as proof that the “official” version claims 1 hour, but it’s not enough by itself to rebuild a runnable 60-minute lesson from your current classroom flow.

What I now have for your Google Classroom Grit/Growth set

Module Procedures (1-hour version) via this PDF 
MODULE PROCEDURES


Understanding Grit PowerPoint (already uploaded earlier)

Being Gritty worksheet (already uploaded earlier)

What I still do not have (from your Classroom list)

Commit to Grit Assignment

Growth Mindset Introduction Assignment

The full Sway page export (multi-page PDF/Word), not just this 1-page capture

When you’re ready to move, upload those missing items and I’ll compare “current teaching reality” vs the 2022 skeleton and then force it into a true 60-minute plan without pretending it’s a 2-hour lesson.


Sources
You said:
MODULE PROCEDURES.pdf
PDF
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 20s
Got it. This MODULE PROCEDURES.pdf is the full Sway flow (4 pages), and it’s the clearest “current teaching reality” version you’ve shown me.

What it actually includes (so we’re looking at the same thing):

It claims Time Required: 1 Hour and lists the module outcomes (define grit, fixed vs growth mindset, connect to trades success, set goals). 
MODULE PROCEDURES


It assigns the Angela Duckworth “Power of Passion and Perseverance” video plus trade-specific discussion questions. 
MODULE PROCEDURES


It includes additional question sets about grit + construction, personal persistence, feedback, “marathon not sprint,” and growth mindset application. 
MODULE PROCEDURES


It directs you to have students finish a worksheet section titled “Commit to Grit,” then defines fixed vs growth mindset and adds “5 ways to develop a growth mindset using grit.” 
MODULE PROCEDURES


It also points to a Growth Mindset video/assignment via forms.office.com and a separate “Grit Growth PowerPoint.” 
MODULE PROCEDURES


Bottom line: this procedure is written like a 90–120 minute lesson but stamped “1 hour.” That’s why it feels impossible.

When you tell me to proceed, I’ll turn this exact procedure into a true 60-minute version by:

Choosing the single highest-impact video piece (or none if you want it fully offline)

Cutting the extra question sets that don’t fit

Keeping one deliverable (your “Being Gritty / Commit to Grit” piece) that can be completed inside the hour

Producing a minute-by-minute run sheet you can teach from without improvising.


Sources
You said:
Growth Mindset and Grit A Powerful Team.pdf
PDF
okay so what about the power point. should i just stick to my power point and make it shorter? this is what i meant with the art work and design. the first two file dumps is what anew gave me. but the sway and this is my stuff. i just dont want to give them my art anymore
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 40s
Yes: teach from your PowerPoint, but don’t hand it over as “the curriculum.”

What you’re describing is a normal split:

Your teaching deck (private)
This is what you present from. It can have your artwork, your flow, your style. Keep it in your personal “instructor toolbox” and do not publish it to the shared master.

The PDF you just uploaded is clearly a full designed deck (20 slides) with custom visuals and layout (“Building Grit & a Growth Mindset in the Trades,” etc.). 
Growth Mindset and Grit A Power…


If you don’t want them to have your art, don’t make this the downloadable student handout.

The program master (public)
This is what goes into the ANEW “official curriculum” location (and later GitHub). It should be content-only: objectives, key definitions, discussion prompts, and the one deliverable. No proprietary visuals. No personal style assets. No “your brand.”

How to shorten your deck to a real 1-hour lesson (and keep your art private)
Your current deck has multiple video-embed slides (they even show a video player error inside the PDF), which is a time-killer and a reliability risk in class. 
Growth Mindset and Grit A Power…


So for the 1-hour version, keep only the highest-impact slides and skip the embedded-video slides entirely.

If I were cutting your 20-slide deck down to a tight 8-slide “field version,” I’d keep these concepts (by slide content shown in the PDF):

Why this matters (your “Success Beyond Skills / Mental Foundation / Career Longevity” slide) 
Growth Mindset and Grit A Power…


What is mindset (definition/impact/choice) 
Growth Mindset and Grit A Power…


Fixed vs growth mindset comparison 
Growth Mindset and Grit A Power…


What is grit (passion + perseverance / long-term commitment) 
Growth Mindset and Grit A Power…


“Real talk: why grit matters in construction” (early mornings, physical demands, skill development, feedback) 
Growth Mindset and Grit A Power…


5 ways to develop grit (this is your actionable core) 
Growth Mindset and Grit A Power…


Commit to Grit: Setting Your Goals (this is your in-class deliverable) 
Growth Mindset and Grit A Power…


Everything else becomes optional or gets relocated into other Golden Rule buckets later.

What I recommend you do next (so you don’t give away your art)

Keep your designed deck as your “live teaching” version.

I will build a separate “ANEW Master” for GitHub that is:

Text-only (or ANEW-owned visuals only)

Same 1-hour content

Same sequence

Same student deliverable (but formatted plain)

That way:

Students still get the lesson.

Staff still get a consistent curriculum.

Your artwork stays yours.


Sources
You said:
sounds good. so lets do the grit growth mindset part of the curriculum. code it out or promot copiolot to do it. i dont care, you have the branding, i just want to keep it uniform. we will have to update the module proceedures. i do however want to have an instructor facing section and a student facing section. i still take pride in my work and this is still my work. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 4m 39s
According to a document from 1/6/2026 (your uploaded MODULE PROCEDURES.pdf includes that timestamp), the Grit & Growth Mindset module is written as a 1-hour lesson in at least one official procedure set. 
MODULE PROCEDURES


You also have an older/alternate procedure document that calls it 2 hours, which is exactly the mismatch you’re dealing with.

Below is a GitHub-ready build of the module as two Markdown files (student-facing + instructor-facing), aligned to the 1-hour version and using the module’s own stated objectives/definitions, prompts, and worksheet language from your uploaded materials. 
MODULE PROCEDURES


MODULE PROCEDURES


W1 - Being-Gritty


1) GitHub curriculum files (copy/paste)
File: docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md (Student-facing)
---
title: Grit & Growth Mindset
audience: Student
time_required: 60 minutes
module_type: Professional Development
---

# Grit & Growth Mindset (60 minutes)

## Why this matters on a job site
In the trades, you will be learning new skills under real pressure: time limits, feedback from journeymen, and mistakes that cost time and money. This module gives you a simple framework to stay in the game when learning gets hard.

## What you will learn today
By the end of this module, you should be able to:
- Describe what “grit” means and why it matters.
- Explain the difference between a fixed mindset and a growth mindset.
- Use a simple set of strategies to build grit and practice a growth mindset.
- Set one short, realistic goal and commit to actions that support it.

## Key definitions
### Grit
**Grit** is “the perseverance and passion for long-term goals.”  
Plain language: sticking with something that matters, even when it gets hard.

### Mindset
A **mindset** is the way you think about your ability to learn and improve.

### Fixed mindset vs. growth mindset
- **Fixed mindset:** You believe your abilities are set and can’t change much. Mistakes feel like proof you “can’t.”
- **Growth mindset:** You believe abilities grow through learning, practice, feedback, and effort. Mistakes are part of learning.

## Five ways to build a growth mindset using grit
Use these as your “job site mental tools”:
1. Embrace challenges.
2. Persist in the face of setbacks.
3. Value effort.
4. Learn from feedback.
5. Find lessons and inspiration in the success of others.

## Quick reflection (construction lens)
Answer in complete thoughts:
1. When you’re learning a new skill, what usually causes you to shut down or get frustrated?
2. What does “taking feedback” look like on a job site (tone, speed, ego, communication)?
3. What is one way you can respond to mistakes that helps you learn instead of spiraling?

## Being Gritty: worksheet
Write your answers clearly. Be honest. This is for your growth.

1. **A goal I’m excited about.** (Something I care about, not something I’m “supposed” to care about.)  
   - Goal:

2. **Leaning into difficulty.** If you want to achieve your goal, you have to “lean into difficulty.”  
   - What is the most common obstacle you face when trying to achieve your goal?

3. **This week’s action.**  
   - What is one thing you will do this week to move you toward your goal?

4. **Mental habit.**  
   - What is a mental habit you will need to build (or break) to achieve your goal?

## Commit to Grit (closing)
1. How will you remind yourself to stay gritty and have a growth mindset?
2. Who will you ask to remind you?
3. What is one thing you will do this week to show grit?
4. When will you do it?

Sign and date (if your class uses signatures):
- Name:
- Date:
Source grounding for this student file:

Learning focus, definitions, and “5 ways” are based on your uploaded procedure language. 
MODULE PROCEDURES


MODULE PROCEDURES


The worksheet and “Commit to Grit” questions are taken from your uploaded W1 - Being-Gritty.pdf. 
W1 - Being-Gritty


File: docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md (Instructor-facing)
---
title: Grit & Growth Mindset — Instructor Guide
audience: Instructor
time_required: 60 minutes
module_type: Professional Development
---

# Grit & Growth Mindset — Instructor Guide (60 minutes)

## Scope and constraints
- This instructor guide is intentionally built to fit the **1-hour** version of the module.  
- Note: You have another procedure variant listing **2 hours**; this guide does not try to cram the 2-hour version into 60 minutes. Use this as the compliant “minimum viable” delivery.

## Learning objectives (what students must walk out with)
Students will:
- Define grit as perseverance and passion for long-term goals.
- Identify fixed vs. growth mindset thinking.
- Practice a short reflection and set one actionable goal.
- Commit to one behavior they will do this week.

## Materials
Required:
- Student handout: “Being Gritty” (or the questions copied into notebooks).
- Whiteboard / chart paper for definitions and examples.

Optional (only if you can do it cleanly in your room):
- Short video segments referenced in your procedure doc (use sparingly; do not let videos eat your hour).

## Non-negotiable content (do not skip)
1. Definitions: grit; fixed mindset; growth mindset.
2. The “5 ways” list (students need a usable tool, not a lecture).
3. Being Gritty reflection + Commit to Grit.

## 60-minute delivery plan (minute-by-minute)
### 0:00–0:05 | Set the frame (5 min)
- Script: “On a job site, you’re going to learn under pressure. This is about staying coachable and consistent.”
- Post the 3 key terms on the board: grit, fixed mindset, growth mindset.

### 0:05–0:15 | Definitions + job site translation (10 min)
- Define grit; fixed mindset; growth mindset in plain language.
- Ask: “What does this look like when you’re learning a new tool or task?”
- Keep it fast and concrete (students should be talking by minute 10).

### 0:15–0:25 | Fixed vs growth mindset: spot it (10 min)
- Call-and-response examples. Write 2 columns:
  - Fixed mindset statements (example: “I’m just not good at this.”)
  - Growth mindset rewrites (example: “I’m not good at this yet; show me the standard.”)
- Ask 2–3 students to rewrite a fixed statement into a growth statement.

### 0:25–0:40 | The “5 ways” tool + one construction example each (15 min)
Teach the five ways (students copy them down):
1. Embrace challenges.
2. Persist in the face of setbacks.
3. Value effort.
4. Learn from feedback.
5. Find lessons and inspiration in the success of others.

Do a rapid-fire round:
- For each “way,” ask for one real job site example (learning tape, layout, lifting/ergonomics, tool handling, safety habits, crew communication).

### 0:40–0:55 | Being Gritty worksheet (15 min)
Students complete the 4 prompts:
1) goal, 2) obstacle, 3) this week’s action, 4) mental habit.

Instructor moves:
- Circulate. Push students away from vague answers (“be better”) toward concrete actions (“practice 10 min/day; ask a classmate to check my layout once”).
- If a student is stuck, give a construction example and have them mirror the structure.

### 0:55–1:00 | Commit to Grit (5 min)
Students answer the 4 “Commit to Grit” questions.
Close with: “Your goal is not motivation. Your goal is a repeatable system.”

## Checks for understanding (fast)
- Ask 3 students:
  1) Define grit in their own words.
  2) Give one fixed mindset thought they’ve had.
  3) Replace it with a growth mindset version.
  4) Name their one action for the week.

## Documentation / collection (if you collect work)
- Collect the worksheet or require a photo upload (whichever is your standard).
- If you do participation grading: completion + specificity (not “good vibes”).

## Notes on restricted content
- Per your program direction: do not use the “Sista” video.
This instructor file is grounded in the 1-hour procedure set’s stated objectives/definitions and the “5 ways” list, plus the “Being Gritty” handout prompts. 
MODULE PROCEDURES


MODULE PROCEDURES


W1 - Being-Gritty


File: docs/styles/anew.css (optional, for uniform branding)
/* Brand tokens pulled from ANEW brand guidelines */
:root{
  --anew-blue: #326691;
  --anew-green: #3FAE49;
  --anew-gray: #505858;
  --anew-font: "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

body { font-family: var(--anew-font); }
h1, h2, h3 { color: var(--anew-blue); }
a { color: var(--anew-green); }
hr { border: 0; border-top: 1px solid var(--anew-gray); opacity: 0.35; }
Brand grounding: primary/secondary colors and Helvetica Neue typography are specified in your uploaded ANEW_brand_guidelines.pdf.

2) Copilot prompt (so they implement it cleanly, fast)
Paste this into Copilot Chat (or a GitHub issue) inside your curriculum repo:

You are helping build a curriculum website hosted on GitHub Pages. Create a new module titled “Grit & Growth Mindset” with two pages: student-facing and instructor-facing.

Requirements:
1) Create these files exactly:
- docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
- docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md
- docs/styles/anew.css

2) Copy the full Markdown and CSS content exactly as provided below (do not invent new content, do not add images, do not add icons, do not add branding artwork).
[PASTE THE 3 FILES’ CONTENT HERE]

3) Wire navigation so the module appears under “Professional Development” with:
- “Grit & Growth Mindset” (student page)
- “Grit & Growth Mindset — Instructor Guide” (instructor page)

4) Ensure the site loads docs/styles/anew.css globally (MkDocs: extra_css; Docusaurus: customCss; Jekyll: include in layout). Do the simplest option based on the existing repo tooling.

5) Do not add new dependencies unless absolutely required. If the repo already has a docs generator, follow its existing pattern.

Output:
- A short summary of what files were created/changed
- The exact diff or file contents
- Any config change needed to load the CSS and nav entry
Straight answer to your design concern (artwork)
Yes: keep teaching from your PowerPoint if it works for you, but do not put your slide art into the new GitHub master. The GitHub master should be the text-controlled “source of truth” (nothing drifts, nothing gets re-themed, nobody copy-pastes your visuals). The two Markdown pages above do that while still matching the procedure language and preserving your instructional intent.

When you upload the next “current vs. old skeleton” items, we can keep repeating this exact pattern: one student page, one instructor page, hours locked to the Golden Rule, and anything extra becomes optional extension material instead of pretending it fits in 60 minutes.


Sources
You said:
can you ask it to do this for you, i just want to copy and paste the info.
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 11s
Copy/paste this whole thing into Copilot Chat. It tells Copilot exactly what to build, and it includes the full content for the files so you don’t have to explain anything twice.

You are working inside my curriculum repo (GitHub Pages). Create a new 1-hour module called “Grit & Growth Mindset” with TWO sections:
- Student-facing (what students read/do)
- Instructor-facing (run-of-show + timing + facilitation notes)

Hard requirements:
- Time locked to 60 minutes. Do NOT expand scope.
- No images, no icons, no embedded videos, no proprietary artwork.
- Uniform branding via CSS only (Helvetica Neue stack + ANEW palette).
- Keep it simple, consistent, and copy-proof (text is the source of truth).

Create these files exactly:

1) docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md  (Student-facing)
--- START FILE ---
---
title: Grit & Growth Mindset
audience: Student
time_required: 60 minutes
module_type: Professional Development
---

# Grit & Growth Mindset (60 minutes)

## Why this matters on a job site
In the trades, you will learn new skills under real pressure: time limits, feedback from others, and mistakes that cost time and money. This module gives you a simple mental framework to stay coachable and consistent when learning gets hard.

## What you will learn today
By the end of this module, you should be able to:
- Define grit and explain why it matters in the trades.
- Explain the difference between a fixed mindset and a growth mindset.
- Use a simple set of strategies to practice grit and a growth mindset.
- Set one short, realistic goal and commit to one action this week.

## Key definitions
### Grit
Grit = perseverance and passion for long-term goals.  
Plain language: sticking with something that matters, even when it gets hard.

### Mindset
A mindset is the way you think about your ability to learn and improve.

### Fixed mindset vs growth mindset
- Fixed mindset: “I’m either good at it or I’m not.” Mistakes feel like proof you can’t.
- Growth mindset: “I can get better.” Mistakes are part of learning.

## Five ways to build a growth mindset using grit
Use these like mental tools:
1. Embrace challenges.
2. Persist in the face of setbacks.
3. Value effort.
4. Learn from feedback.
5. Find lessons and inspiration in the success of others.

## Quick reflection (construction lens)
Answer in complete thoughts:
1. When you’re learning a new skill, what usually makes you shut down or get frustrated?
2. What does “taking feedback” look like on a job site (tone, speed, ego, communication)?
3. What is one way you can respond to mistakes that helps you learn instead of spiraling?

## Being Gritty: worksheet (in-class)
Write your answers clearly. Be specific.

1) A goal I’m excited about (something I actually care about):
- Goal:

2) Leaning into difficulty:
- The most common obstacle I face when working toward this goal:

3) This week’s action:
- One thing I will do this week to move toward my goal:

4) Mental habit:
- A mental habit I need to build (or break) to reach my goal:

## Commit to Grit (closing)
Answer these before you leave:
1) How will you remind yourself to stay gritty and practice a growth mindset?
2) Who will you ask to remind you?
3) What is one thing you will do this week to show grit?
4) When will you do it?

Name:
Date:
--- END FILE ---


2) docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md  (Instructor-facing)
--- START FILE ---
---
title: Grit & Growth Mindset — Instructor Guide
audience: Instructor
time_required: 60 minutes
module_type: Professional Development
---

# Grit & Growth Mindset — Instructor Guide (60 minutes)

## Scope
This guide is the compliant 60-minute version. Do not try to force extra videos, extra assignments, or extended discussion. If you want extensions, create a separate “Optional Extension” page later.

## Objectives (students must leave with)
Students will:
- Define grit.
- Identify fixed vs growth mindset thinking.
- Practice a short reflection and set one realistic goal.
- Commit to one action they will do this week.

## Materials
- Whiteboard / chart paper (definitions + examples)
- Student worksheet section (embedded in the student page)

## 60-minute run-of-show (minute-by-minute)

### 0:00–0:05 (5 min) — Set the frame
Say: “In the trades, you learn under pressure. This is about staying coachable and consistent when learning gets hard.”
Write on board:
- Grit
- Fixed mindset
- Growth mindset

### 0:05–0:15 (10 min) — Definitions + job site translation
Teach in plain language:
- Grit = sticking with long-term goals even when it’s hard.
- Fixed mindset = “I’m either good at it or not.”
- Growth mindset = “I can improve with practice and feedback.”
Ask:
- “Where do you see this in construction training or on a crew?”
Keep it concrete, no therapy session.

### 0:15–0:25 (10 min) — Spot it: fixed vs growth
Make two columns on the board:
Fixed mindset statements → Growth mindset rewrites
Examples:
- “I’m just not good at this.” → “I’m not good at this yet. Show me the standard.”
- “I always mess up.” → “I’m learning. I need reps and feedback.”
Have 2–3 students rewrite one statement out loud.

### 0:25–0:40 (15 min) — Teach the tool: 5 ways
Students write the “5 ways” down:
1) Embrace challenges
2) Persist through setbacks
3) Value effort
4) Learn from feedback
5) Learn from others’ success
For each “way,” ask for one construction example:
- learning a tool
- taking correction
- repeating a task until it’s right
- staying safe when tired
- showing up on time consistently

### 0:40–0:55 (15 min) — Student worksheet: Being Gritty
Students complete the four prompts:
- goal
- obstacle
- one action this week
- mental habit to build/break
Instructor moves:
- Push students toward specific actions (“10 minutes/day practice” beats “try harder”).
- If someone is stuck, give a trade example and have them mirror the structure.

### 0:55–1:00 (5 min) — Commit to Grit (closing)
Students answer the 4 closing questions.
Close line: “Motivation comes and goes. Systems and habits keep you moving.”

## Fast checks for understanding (30 seconds each)
Ask 3 students:
1) Define grit in their own words.
2) Give one fixed mindset thought.
3) Rewrite it as growth mindset.
4) State their one action for the week.

## Notes / restrictions
- Do NOT use restricted videos (e.g., Sista). This module is designed to run without video.
--- END FILE ---


3) docs/styles/anew.css  (branding tokens only)
--- START FILE ---
:root{
  --anew-blue: #326691;
  --anew-green: #3FAE49;
  --anew-gray: #505858;
  --anew-font: "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

body { font-family: var(--anew-font); }
h1, h2, h3 { color: var(--anew-blue); }
a { color: var(--anew-blue); }
a:hover { color: var(--anew-green); }
hr { border: 0; border-top: 1px solid var(--anew-gray); opacity: 0.35; }
table thead th { background: var(--anew-gray); color: white; }
--- END FILE ---


Wiring requirements:
- Add the module to site navigation under “Professional Development.”
- Ensure the CSS loads globally.

Implementation rule:
- Detect the site generator/config (MkDocs, Docusaurus, Jekyll, etc.) and apply the smallest possible config change.
- Output the exact files changed and any config edits as a diff.

Done means:
- Student page renders cleanly
- Instructor page renders cleanly
- Branding CSS is applied
- Navigation shows both pages
If you paste that into Copilot, it should generate exactly what you need without touching your private slide artwork.

You said:
how do i fix this problem. "Rename main to:
main
Most projects name the default branch main

Renaming this branch:

Will update 2 pull requests targeting this branch.
Will unpublish current GitHub Pages site.
Your current GitHub Pages site will become unpublished. A new commit on the renamed branch will publish the GitHub Pages site again.

Will not update your members' local environments.
Your members will have to manually update their local environments. We'll let them know when they visit the repository, or you can share the following commands.

git branch -m main <BRANCH>
git fetch origin
git branch -u origin/<BRANCH> <BRANCH>
git remote set-head origin -a"
ChatGPT said:
That message is GitHub warning you about renaming your default branch. Nothing is “broken” yet. You’ve got two ways to handle it depending on what you actually want.

What’s happening

Your repo default branch is NOT named main (it’s probably master or something else).

GitHub is nudging you to rename it to main.

If your Pages site is currently publishing from that branch, GitHub will temporarily unpublish it until Pages is pointed at the renamed branch and a commit exists on it.

Option A (recommended): Rename the branch and repoint Pages
Do this if you want the modern standard: default branch = main.

Rename the default branch in GitHub

Repo → Settings → Branches → Default branch → Rename

Rename whatever it is now (often master) to main

Fix GitHub Pages settings

Repo → Settings → Pages

Under “Build and deployment”

If it’s “Deploy from a branch”: set Branch to main and pick /root or /docs (whatever you use)

If it’s “GitHub Actions”: update the workflow if it hard-codes the old branch name (search your repo for master)

Make a tiny commit to trigger publish

Edit a README line and commit, or add a blank file. Pages should republish after that.

If you have collaborators using git locally, send them this (exactly)
They need to update their local branch name. If the old branch was master, this is the clean version:

git fetch origin
git checkout master
git branch -m master main
git branch -u origin/main main
git remote set-head origin -a
Option B: Don’t rename, just shut GitHub up
Do this if you don’t want any disruption right now.

Leave the branch name alone.

Make sure Pages is configured to deploy from the branch you already use.

Ignore the suggestion.

Why your Pages site “unpublishes”
Because GitHub Pages was pointing at the old branch name. When you rename it, that pointer breaks until you point Pages at the new branch.

Fast check (so you don’t guess)

Go to Settings → Pages and tell me what it says under:

“Source” / “Build and deployment”

“Branch” and “Folder”
Then I can tell you exactly what needs to be changed in your specific setup.

You said:
how can i fix this issue "Warning

Firewall rules blocked me from connecting to one or more addresses (expand for details)
I tried to connect to the following addresses, but was blocked by firewall rules:
https://storage.googleapis.com/chrome-for-testing-public/143.0.7499.4/linux64/chrome-headless-shell-linux64.zip
Triggering command: /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/node /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/node /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/package/lib/server/registry/oopDownloadBrowserMain.js (http block)
https://storage.googleapis.com/chrome-for-testing-public/143.0.7499.4/linux64/chrome-linux64.zip
Triggering command: /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/node /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/node /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/package/lib/server/registry/oopDownloadBrowserMain.js (http block)
If you need me to access, download, or install something from one of these locations, you can either:

Configure Actions setup steps to set up my environment, which run before the firewall is enabled
Add the appropriate URLs or hosts to the custom allowlist in this repository's Copilot coding agent settings (admins only)
Original prompt
This pull request was created from Copilot chat.

✨ Let Copilot coding agent set things up for you — coding agent works faster and does higher quality work when set up for your repo.

Copilot uses AI. Check for mistakes.
Mention @copilot in a comment to make changes to this pull request.
Initial plan
f0cb35a
 Copilot AI assigned Copilot and mandy1eigh007 5 hours ago
Copilot started work on behalf of mandy1eigh007 5 hours ago
Copilot AI and others added 2 commits 5 hours ago
@mandy1eigh007
Add Grit & Growth Mindset professional development module 
7177dbb
@mandy1eigh007
Fix redundant content in student-facing page 
e34e3d8
 Copilot AI changed the title [WIP] Add Grit & Growth Mindset module with student and instructor sections Add Grit & Growth Mindset professional development module 5 hours ago
 Copilot AI requested a review from mandy1eigh007 5 hours ago
Copilot finished work on behalf of mandy1eigh007 5 hours ago
mandy1eigh007
mandy1eigh007 approved these changes 5 hours ago
@mandy1eigh007 mandy1eigh007 marked this pull request as ready for review 5 hours ago
This branch has not been deployed
No deployments
Merge info
Changes reviewed
No applicable reviews submitted by reviewers with write access.


All checks have passed
1 skipped, 1 successful checks


No conflicts with base branch
Merging can be performed automatically.

You can also merge this with the command line.  "
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 45s
That warning is telling you one very specific thing: Playwright is trying to download Chromium/Chrome from Google Cloud Storage, and in the Copilot coding-agent environment outbound downloads to that host are blocked by firewall rules. So the agent can’t install the browser binaries it needs.

You fix it by choosing one of these paths (pick based on whether you actually need Playwright).

Best fix if you don’t need Playwright right now: stop requiring it
If your repo is just building a curriculum site (Markdown → Pages) and Playwright isn’t essential, remove or skip the step that triggers it.

Common places to check:

requirements.txt / pyproject.toml includes playwright

GitHub Actions workflow runs tests or a script that imports Playwright

A “PDF generation” step uses Playwright/Puppeteer under the hood

Quick workaround: set Playwright to not download browsers during CI (only if you are not running browser-based tests in CI):

export PLAYWRIGHT_SKIP_BROWSER_DOWNLOAD=1
If you are running Playwright tests, this won’t work (tests will fail because no browser exists).

If you do need Playwright: install browsers before the firewall kicks in (Copilot agent setup steps)
That warning literally tells you the fix: run the install in the repo’s Copilot coding agent setup steps (these run before the firewall is enabled), or allowlist the host.

Add a setup step that does one of these (Python repo):

python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python -m playwright install chromium
Or for Node:

npm ci
npx playwright install chromium
This makes the browser download happen during the “allowed” phase.

Admin-only alternative: allowlist the blocked host
If you have admin rights and you want the agent to be able to download normally, allowlist:

storage.googleapis.com

or specifically chrome-for-testing-public (as shown in the URLs)

This is done in the repository’s Copilot coding agent settings (wherever your org exposes “custom allowlist”).

Most reliable CI approach: use a Playwright container image (no browser download)
If this is happening in your CI and you want it rock-solid, run the job in a Microsoft Playwright container that already includes browsers. You choose a tag that matches your Playwright version.

Example pattern (you’ll need to adjust to your workflow file and version):

jobs:
  test:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    container: mcr.microsoft.com/playwright/python:YOUR_TAG_HERE
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - run: python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
      - run: pytest
One important detail from your paste: it also says “All checks have passed” and one check was skipped. That means this warning is likely from the Copilot agent trying to do something extra, not necessarily blocking your merge.

Fastest way to tell you exactly which option fits: tell me what in your repo is using Playwright (tests? PDF generation? something else) and whether this warning is coming from Copilot’s PR run or your normal GitHub Actions workflow.

You said:
Content

docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md - Student-facing module covering fixed vs growth mindset, resilience strategies, and practical application to coding
docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md - Teaching guide with session structure (10min intro, 25min core, 20min reflection), differentiation strategies, and troubleshooting
Styling

docs/styles/anew.css - CSS custom properties for ANEW brand tokens (Helvetica Neue, #326691 blue, #3FAE49 green)
Configuration

 extra_css:
   - stylesheets/extra.css
+  - styles/anew.css

 nav:
   ...
+  - Professional Development:
+    - Grit & Growth Mindset: professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
+    - Grit & Growth Mindset (Instructor): professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md
Screenshots
Student page with navigation
Student page

Instructor guide
Instructor page

Navigation structure
Navigation

Warning

Firewall rules blocked me from connecting to one or more addresses (expand for details)
I tried to connect to the following addresses, but was blocked by firewall rules:
https://storage.googleapis.com/chrome-for-testing-public/143.0.7499.4/linux64/chrome-headless-shell-linux64.zip
Triggering command: /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/node /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/node /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/package/lib/server/registry/oopDownloadBrowserMain.js (http block)
https://storage.googleapis.com/chrome-for-testing-public/143.0.7499.4/linux64/chrome-linux64.zip
Triggering command: /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/node /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/node /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.11.14/x64/lib/python3.11/site-packages/playwright/driver/package/lib/server/registry/oopDownloadBrowserMain.js (http block)
If you need me to access, download, or install something from one of these locations, you can either:

Configure Actions setup steps to set up my environment, which run before the firewall is enabled
Add the appropriate URLs or hosts to the custom allowlist in this repository's Copilot coding agent settings (admins only)
Original prompt
This pull request was created from Copilot chat.

✨ Let Copilot coding agent set things up for you — coding agent works faster and does higher quality work when set up for your repo.

Copilot uses AI. Check for mistakes.
Mention @copilot in a comment to make changes to this pull request.
Initial plan
f0cb35a
 Copilot AI assigned Copilot and mandy1eigh007 5 hours ago
Copilot started work on behalf of mandy1eigh007 5 hours ago
Copilot AI and others added 2 commits 5 hours ago
@mandy1eigh007
Add Grit & Growth Mindset professional development module 
7177dbb
@mandy1eigh007
Fix redundant content in student-facing page 
e34e3d8
 Copilot AI changed the title [WIP] Add Grit & Growth Mindset module with student and instructor sections Add Grit & Growth Mindset professional development module 5 hours ago
 Copilot AI requested a review from mandy1eigh007 5 hours ago
Copilot finished work on behalf of mandy1eigh007 5 hours ago
mandy1eigh007
mandy1eigh007 approved these changes 5 hours ago
@mandy1eigh007 mandy1eigh007 marked this pull request as ready for review 5 hours ago
This branch has not been deployed
No deployments
Merge info
Changes reviewed
No applicable reviews submitted by reviewers with write access.


All checks have passed
1 skipped, 1 successful checks


No conflicts with base branch
Merging can be performed automatically.

You can also merge this with the command line. 
Still in progress?
@mandy1eigh007


Add a comment
Comment
 
Add your comment here...
 
Remember, contributions to this repository should follow our GitHub Community Guidelines.
 ProTip! Add comments to specific lines under Files changed.
Reviewers
1 more reviewer
@mandy1eigh007
mandy1eigh007

Still in progress?
Assignees
@mandy1eigh007
mandy1eigh007
Copilot code review
Copilot
Labels
None yet
Projects
None yet
Milestone
No milestone
Development
Successfully merging this pull request may close these issues.

None yet


Notifications
Customize
You’re receiving notifications because you were assigned.
2 participants
@mandy1eigh007
Footer
© 2026 GitHub, Inc.
Footer navigation
Terms
Privacy
Security
Statu
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 50s
That warning isn’t about your MkDocs content. It’s Copilot’s coding agent trying to run Playwright, which then tries to download a Chrome binary from storage.googleapis.com, and the agent’s firewall blocks it.

Good news: your PR can still be merged. “All checks have passed” means this warning is not stopping deploy. If you want it gone (and keep the agent happy), pick one of these fixes.

Option 1 (simplest): stop triggering Playwright at all
If this repo is just a MkDocs curriculum site, you don’t need Playwright.

Do this:

Search your repo for what’s calling Playwright:

In GitHub: search for playwright install

Also search: pytest-playwright, playwright, npx playwright, python -m playwright

Remove that step from workflows/scripts, OR gate it so it doesn’t run in this repo.

If you still need the Python package but do NOT need browsers in CI, add an environment variable to the job that installs deps:

PLAYWRIGHT_SKIP_BROWSER_DOWNLOAD=1
(Only use this if you are not running browser tests/screenshot automation.)

Option 2 (agent-focused): preinstall before the firewall
This warning is specifically about the Copilot coding agent environment. If you want Copilot to keep generating screenshots/previews that rely on Playwright, you must either:

A) Add “setup steps” for the Copilot coding agent that run before the firewall, and install browsers there:

python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python -m playwright install chromium
B) Admin-only: allowlist the host in Copilot coding agent settings
Allowlist:

storage.googleapis.com
(or whatever host your Playwright downloads hit)

Option 3 (most reliable): don’t download browsers at all
If you actually do need browser automation in CI, use a Playwright container image (browsers already included) and stop downloading during runs. This is more work, but it eliminates the whole class of failures.

What I would do in your situation
Because your PR is just adding MkDocs pages + CSS + nav: use Option 1. Remove/gate whatever is invoking Playwright so the repo stays “boring” and dependable.

If you paste the contents of your .github/workflows/*.yml (or tell me which workflow ran when this warning appeared), I’ll point to the exact line to delete or guard.

You said:
This branch has conflicts that must be resolved
Use the command line to resolve conflicts before continuing.

.github/workflows/pages.yml
.gitignore
CHANGELOG.md
README.md
curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml
docs/governance/golden-rule.md
docs/governance/single-source.md
docs/index.md
docs/stylesheets/extra.css
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
mkdocs.yml
requirements.txt
scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
This pull request is still a work in progress
Draft pull requests cannot be merged.
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 11s
You’ve got two separate blockers:

The PR is a Draft → drafts can’t be merged.

The branch is out of date → merge conflicts across a bunch of files.

Fix order: resolve conflicts first (so the PR is clean), then mark it “Ready for review.”

Resolve the conflicts (command line)
This is the standard, boring, reliable way:

Update your local repo and switch to the PR branch

git fetch origin
git checkout <your-branch-name>
git pull
Merge the base branch into your branch (usually main)

git merge origin/main
Git will stop and tell you which files conflicted. For each conflicted file:

Open it

Find the conflict markers:

<<<<<<<

=======

>>>>>>>

Decide what the final content should be

Delete the markers

Save

Mark conflicts as resolved and commit

git add .github/workflows/pages.yml .gitignore CHANGELOG.md README.md \
  curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml docs/governance/golden-rule.md \
  docs/governance/single-source.md docs/index.md docs/stylesheets/extra.css \
  docs/stylesheets/pdf.css mkdocs.yml requirements.txt scripts/validate_golden_rule.py

git commit -m "Resolve merge conflicts with main"
Push back up to GitHub

git push
After that, refresh the PR page. The “conflicts must be resolved” message should be gone.

If you prefer rebase instead of merge (cleaner history, slightly more annoying)

git fetch origin
git checkout <your-branch-name>
git rebase origin/main
# resolve conflicts as they appear
git add <file>
git rebase --continue
git push --force-with-lease
Important: only use rebase if you’re comfortable with --force-with-lease.

Then fix the Draft status
On the PR page:

Click “Ready for review” (or “Mark as ready”).
That removes the “Draft pull requests cannot be merged” blocker.

Where people usually mess up with your specific conflict list

mkdocs.yml: keep BOTH your new nav entries and anything added on main since you branched.

docs/stylesheets/extra.css and docs/styles/anew.css: don’t let a conflict accidentally drop the CSS include.

requirements.txt: if Playwright snuck in and you don’t need it for a docs site, cut it. That’s what triggers the Chrome download/firewall warning you saw.

golden_rule_hours.yaml + validate_golden_rule.py + docs/governance/golden-rule.md: these three must agree, or your validation will fail later.

If you paste the conflict blocks for mkdocs.yml and requirements.txt (just the sections showing <<<<<<< / ======= / >>>>>>>), I’ll tell you exactly what to keep so you don’t accidentally delete your new module or reintroduce Playwright.

You said:
im hoping that it copied correctly, but i have been working on this for a while. i think ill be pasting the latest update of what is going on. "Repository/branch reviewed: copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo (PR: Implement docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement).
Performed a focused code review of the MkDocs-based curriculum repo.
Validated curriculum data: reviewed golden_rule_hours.yaml for expected totals (Core=240, Math=40, Total=280).
Proposed an optimized validation script (scripts/validate_golden_rule.py):
Added type hints, structured logging, helper functions, and clearer error handling.
Ensures subunit/component sums match declared totals and enforces Golden Rule values.
Suggested MkDocs config tweaks (mkdocs.yml):
Enable strict mode, minimize plugins, optional exporter note.
Suggested CSS improvements (docs/stylesheets/extra.css, pdf.css):
Add responsive rules and consolidate repeating styles.
Suggested CI/workflow improvement (.github/workflows/pages.yml):
Cache/install Playwright dependencies more efficiently.
General repo recommendations:
Pin dependency versions in requirements.txt for reproducibility.
Use mkdocs build --clean in CI.
Add .pre-commit-config.yaml (black, yamllint) and pytest tests for the validation script.
Next steps recommended: implement the proposed script, add tests/linting, update CI and pin dependencies. "
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 24s
That paste mostly tracks. The one part I’d correct right now is the Playwright angle.

If this repo’s job is “docs-as-code curriculum + Golden Rule enforcement,” Playwright is a self-inflicted wound unless you are explicitly doing browser-based PDF rendering or UI screenshot tests. It’s what triggered your firewall warning, and it will keep doing that.

What I would keep from your update (solid)

Golden Rule totals check (Core 240 + Math 40 = 280) and enforcing it via golden_rule_hours.yaml + validation script.

A single validation script that fails fast and clearly.

MkDocs strict mode (once your links are cleaned up).

Pinning dependencies in requirements.txt.

What I would change (tell it like it is)

Drop “Cache/install Playwright dependencies more efficiently” unless you can point to a real requirement in your repo that needs Playwright. Otherwise you’re optimizing a problem you don’t need.

How to confirm your “latest update” is actually true (quick verification checklist)
Run these locally in the repo after you resolve conflicts:

Confirm Golden Rule totals and schema are valid

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
If this fails, stop. Fix YAML/script until it’s bulletproof.

Confirm MkDocs builds cleanly

mkdocs build --clean
If you enable strict mode (recommended), test it explicitly

mkdocs build --clean --strict
Strict mode is great, but it will break your build on bad links. That’s the point.

Check if Playwright is actually being pulled in

python -c "import playwright; print('playwright installed')"
If that prints successfully and you don’t need it: remove it from requirements.txt and from CI steps.

What I recommend you do next (given your conflict list + draft PR)

Resolve the merge conflicts on your branch (merge origin/main into it).

Decide: “Do we need Playwright?”

If no: delete it from requirements and delete any install steps from .github/workflows/pages.yml.

If yes: you’ll need either an allowlist or a pre-firewall setup step for Copilot agent/CI. Otherwise it will keep failing intermittently.

Push the conflict-resolve commit.

Mark the PR “Ready for review” (draft off).

Merge.

If you paste just the conflicting sections for these two files, I can tell you exactly what to keep so you don’t accidentally drop your nav/CSS or reintroduce Playwright:

mkdocs.yml (the nav: and extra_css: areas)

requirements.txt (entire file is fine; it’s usually short)

You said:
before i do that, this is their most resent message "Based on the repository context (MkDocs-based curriculum site with no browser automation or testing needs), Playwright is not required—it's not referenced in any code, dependencies, or workflows. Optimizing for it would be unnecessary and inefficient.

I've removed that suggestion from the optimizations. Here's the updated summary of what was done in the last 24 hours (focused on efficient, relevant changes):

Repository/Branch Reviewed: copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo (PR: Implement docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement).
Curriculum Data Validation: Reviewed golden_rule_hours.yaml for expected totals (Core=240, Math=40, Total=280).
Optimized Validation Script (validate_golden_rule.py):
Added type hints, structured logging, helper functions, and clearer error handling.
Ensures subunit/component sums match declared totals and enforces Golden Rule values.
MkDocs Config Tweaks (mkdocs.yml):
Enable strict mode, minimize plugins, optional exporter note.
CSS Improvements (extra.css, pdf.css):
Add responsive rules and consolidate repeating styles.
General Repo Recommendations:
Pin dependency versions in requirements.txt for reproducibility.
Use mkdocs build --clean in CI.
Add .pre-commit-config.yaml (black, yamllint) and pytest tests for the validation script.
Next Steps: Implement the proposed script, add tests/linting, update CI, and pin dependencies. Test locally before committing."
ChatGPT said:
That updated message is the correct direction. The key line is the real win:

“Playwright is not required… not referenced… removed that suggestion.”

So now your marching orders are clean and boring (boring is good in curriculum repos).

What you should do next, in order

Kill Playwright completely (so the firewall warning dies forever)

Open requirements.txt

Remove anything Playwright-related:

playwright

pytest-playwright

anything that exists only for browser automation

Then check .github/workflows/pages.yml and delete any step like:

python -m playwright install ...

npx playwright install ...

If none exist, great.

Resolve your merge conflicts with a “keep the good stuff” rule
When you merge origin/main into your PR branch, you’re going to see conflict markers. Your rule should be:

Keep the newest governance + validation changes from both sides.

Keep your new nav entries and CSS include.

Do not let conflicts remove the Golden Rule enforcement files.

The highest-risk conflict file is mkdocs.yml
You must keep:

extra_css with both:

stylesheets/extra.css

styles/anew.css

nav entries for your new module

Run the two sanity commands before pushing

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
mkdocs build --clean
If you’re enabling strict mode, run:

mkdocs build --clean --strict
Push, then flip PR from Draft to Ready

Push your conflict-resolve commit

Click “Ready for review”

Merge

One thing I’d tighten in their summary
“Enable strict mode” is good, but only if you’re ready for it to start failing builds on broken links. That’s a feature, not a bug. If you’re still moving pages around, you can delay strict mode until after the first cleanup sprint.

If you paste the conflict markers for mkdocs.yml and requirements.txt (just the sections showing <<<<<<< / ======= / >>>>>>>), I’ll tell you exactly what the final merged version should look like so you don’t accidentally drop nav/CSS or reintroduce junk dependencies.

You said:
all done. i am in their codespace now. finally got it open. so lets knock this out
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 16s
Perfect. In the Codespace terminal, run this exact sequence and you’ll be done (or you’ll immediately see what’s still broken).

Confirm you’re on the PR branch and the repo is clean

git status
git branch --show-current
git log -1 --oneline
You want: no unmerged paths, no conflict markers, and you’re on your feature branch (not main).

Make sure Playwright is gone (so the firewall warning stays dead)

grep -i "playwright" -n requirements.txt || echo "No Playwright in requirements.txt"
grep -i "playwright" -R .github/workflows || echo "No Playwright in workflows"
Run the Golden Rule validator

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
This should exit clean. If it fails, paste the error and I’ll tell you exactly what to fix in golden_rule_hours.yaml or the script.

Build the site (clean)

mkdocs build --clean
If you enabled strict mode in mkdocs.yml, also run:

mkdocs build --clean --strict
Strict will fail on broken links. That’s normal; fix the links or temporarily disable strict until the re-org settles.

Quick local preview (optional but smart)

mkdocs serve -a 0.0.0.0:8000
Open the forwarded port in Codespaces. Confirm:

The new Grit module pages show in nav

anew.css is actually applying (fonts/colors)

Commit and push (only if you have changes not pushed yet)

git status
git add -A
git commit -m "Resolve conflicts and finalize Grit & Growth Mindset module"
git push
If git status is clean, skip committing and just push if needed.

Finish in GitHub UI

Open the PR

If it’s still Draft: click “Ready for review”

Confirm checks pass

Merge (Squash is fine for this kind of repo)

If anything fails, paste the output from the first failing command (validator or mkdocs build) and I’ll tell you exactly what line to change.

You said:
# Curriculum Master Development Timeline

**Date:** January 8, 2026  
**Repository:** curriculum_master  
**Branch:** copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo  
**Objective:** Resolve merge conflicts and establish docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement

---

## Timeline of Events

### Event 1: Initial Repository Assessment
**Time:** Start of session  
**Action:** Check repository status and current state  
**Commands:**
bash
git status
git branch --show-current
git log -1 --oneline

**Result:** On branch copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo, up to date with origin. Last commit: "Resolve merge conflicts: Keep newest governance/validation, new nav/CSS, Golden Rule files"

### Event 2: Playwright Investigation
**Time:** Early session  
**Action:** Search for Playwright references in project files  
**Commands:**
bash
grep -i "playwright" -n requirements.txt || echo "No Playwright in requirements.txt"
grep -i "playwright" -R .github/workflows || echo "No Playwright in workflows"

**Findings:**
- No Playwright in requirements.txt
- Playwright found in .github/workflows/pages.yml (used for PDF generation)

### Event 3: Golden Rule Validation Attempt
**Time:** Mid-session  
**Action:** Attempt to run Golden Rule validation script  
**Command:**
bash
python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py

**Issue:** SyntaxError due to merge conflict markers (<<<<<<< HEAD) in the script

### Event 4: YAML Merge Conflict Resolution
**Time:** Mid-session  
**Action:** Resolve merge conflicts in golden_rule_hours.yaml  
**Changes:**
- Removed conflict markers
- Kept buckets-based structure from origin/main
- Maintained curriculum hour allocations (Core: 240, Math: 40, Total: 280)

### Event 5: Python Script Conflict Resolution
**Time:** Mid-session  
**Action:** Resolve merge conflicts in validate_golden_rule.py  
**Changes:**
- Removed conflict markers
- Kept origin/main version with buckets-based validation
- Script now properly validates subunit sums and Golden Rule totals

### Event 6: Requirements.txt Conflict Resolution
**Time:** Mid-session  
**Action:** Resolve merge conflicts in requirements.txt  
**Changes:**
- Removed conflict markers
- Kept origin/main version with additional pymdown-extensions
- Updated MkDocs and related package versions

### Event 7: Dependency Installation
**Time:** Mid-session  
**Action:** Install Python dependencies  
**Command:**
bash
pip install -r requirements.txt

**Result:** Successfully installed MkDocs, Material theme, exporter, and extensions

### Event 8: MkDocs Configuration Fixes
**Time:** Mid-session  
**Action:** Fix YAML parsing errors in mkdocs.yml  
**Issues Fixed:**
- Corrected indentation in navigation section
- Removed empty nav entries causing "None" values
- Ensured proper YAML structure

### Event 9: CSS Conflict Resolution
**Time:** Mid-session  
**Action:** Resolve merge conflicts in CSS files  
**Files Modified:**
- docs/stylesheets/extra.css
- docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
**Changes:** Kept origin/main versions with enhanced ANEW branding and print styles

### Event 10: Playwright Setup
**Time:** Mid-session  
**Action:** Install Playwright browser and system dependencies  
**Commands:**
bash
python -m playwright install chromium
sudo apt install -y libatk1.0-0t64 libatk-bridge2.0-0t64 libdrm2 libxkbcommon0 libxcomposite1 libxdamage1 libxrandr2 libgbm1 libxss1 libasound2t64 libxfixes3 libxext6 libxrender1 libxss1 libgtk-3-0

**Purpose:** Enable PDF generation in MkDocs build process

### Event 11: Successful MkDocs Build
**Time:** Mid-session  
**Action:** Build MkDocs documentation site  
**Command:**
bash
python -m mkdocs build --clean

**Result:**
- Site built successfully in 38.38 seconds
- Generated HTML documentation
- Created PDF export (downloads/curriculum.pdf)
- All curriculum pages rendered correctly

### Event 12: Final Commit and Push
**Time:** End of session  
**Action:** Commit all resolved conflicts and push changes  
**Commands:**
bash
git status
git add -A
git commit -m "Resolve conflicts and finalize Grit & Growth Mindset module"
git push

**Result:**
- 6 files changed (curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml, docs/stylesheets/extra.css, docs/stylesheets/pdf.css, mkdocs.yml, requirements.txt, scripts/validate_golden_rule.py)
- Commit: 53e821f
- Successfully pushed to origin/copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo

---

## Files Modified During Session

1. **curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml** - Resolved merge conflicts, kept buckets structure
2. **scripts/validate_golden_rule.py** - Resolved merge conflicts, kept validation logic
3. **requirements.txt** - Resolved merge conflicts, updated dependencies
4. **mkdocs.yml** - Fixed navigation structure and YAML syntax
5. **docs/stylesheets/extra.css** - Resolved merge conflicts, kept enhanced styling
6. **docs/stylesheets/pdf.css** - Resolved merge conflicts, kept print styles

## Key Achievements

- ✅ Resolved all merge conflicts across 6 files
- ✅ Established working MkDocs documentation site
- ✅ Enabled PDF generation with Playwright
- ✅ Validated Golden Rule hour allocations
- ✅ Committed and pushed all changes successfully
- ✅ Created comprehensive timeline documentation

## Final Repository State

- **Branch:** copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo
- **Status:** Clean working tree, up to date with origin
- **Build Status:** ✅ Passing (MkDocs builds successfully)
- **Validation:** ✅ Golden Rule hours validated (240 core + 40 math = 280 total)
- **Documentation:** ✅ Available at site/ directory with PDF export

---

*This timeline documents the complete development session from conflict resolution through successful deployment.*
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 45s
Your timeline is coherent and, more importantly, it explains why things finally started behaving: you removed conflict markers, stabilized mkdocs.yml, got the Golden Rule validator running, and confirmed the PDF export path actually works end-to-end.

Two points to tighten so you don’t get surprised later:

Playwright reality check
Your “no Playwright in requirements.txt” note is still compatible with “Playwright is used,” because it can be a transitive dependency (pulled in by a PDF/export plugin). But for reproducibility, decide which you want:

If Playwright is required for PDF export in CI: explicitly pin it (directly) or at least document that it’s a transitive dependency and that Chromium install is required.

If PDF export is optional: gate it behind a flag in the workflow so normal builds don’t depend on browser downloads.

CI vs Codespace
You proved PDF generation works in Codespace by installing Chromium + system libs. GitHub Actions may still fail if those libs aren’t present on the runner (depends on ubuntu image and what’s preinstalled). If the Pages workflow generates PDFs, make sure .github/workflows/pages.yml includes:

python -m playwright install chromium

any required system packages (or use a container / apt install step)

caching if you care about runtime

What to do next (to finish the PR cleanly)

In GitHub, open the PR and confirm:

It’s no longer Draft (click “Ready for review” if needed).

“This branch has conflicts” is gone.

Checks are green.

Merge the PR.

After merge, confirm Pages deploy:

Repo Settings → Pages: confirm it points to the correct branch and path.

Make a tiny follow-up commit if Pages doesn’t republish automatically.

If you paste the relevant section of .github/workflows/pages.yml (the PDF export / Playwright part), I’ll tell you exactly what to keep, what to delete, and what to gate so you don’t re-trigger the firewall/binary-download drama unnecessarily.

You said:
the timeline that i sent you was created by codespace. it was a timeline of their events. i have no idea what they did or what you did, so im just the middle man. why dont you tell them what you need cause im still lost with what is going on here. 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 22s
Got it. That timeline is basically a robot’s “I swear I did stuff” receipt, and you’re stuck translating it into “is this actually correct, and will it deploy.”

Here’s what I need “them” (Copilot / whoever touched the branch) to confirm and fix so you’re not guessing.

What I need them to do (definition of done)

Confirm the Grit & Growth Mindset module matches your Golden Rule

It must be 1 hour.

It must be construction/trades focused (no “practical application to coding” language anywhere).

It must have two pages: student-facing and instructor-facing.

Your personal slide artwork is not included.

Confirm Golden Rule enforcement works in CI, not just in Codespace

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py must run and pass in GitHub Actions.

mkdocs build --clean must run and pass in GitHub Actions.

Decide what to do about PDF generation (this is where the confusion lives)

If PDF export is required: make CI install the Playwright browser + required system libraries reliably.

If PDF export is not required: remove/disable the PDF export step so Playwright stops showing up and breaking things with firewalls.

Resolve PR state issues

PR must not be Draft.

PR must show “no conflicts.”

Pages deployment settings must point at the correct branch after merge.

Copy/paste this to “them” (PR comment)
Paste this into the PR as a comment (and tag @copilot if you’re using Copilot agent):

@copilot I’m the middle-man and need this made unambiguous. Please confirm/fix the following in this PR:

A) Content correctness
1) Ensure the new module content is construction/trades focused. Remove any references to “coding” or software development in:
- docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
- docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md
2) Confirm the module is explicitly scoped to 60 minutes (Golden Rule = 1 hour).

B) Golden Rule enforcement
3) Ensure scripts/validate_golden_rule.py runs cleanly locally AND in CI.
4) Ensure golden_rule_hours.yaml totals are enforced (Core 240, Math 40, Total 280) and the validation script fails the build if incorrect.

C) CI + Playwright/PDF decision
5) Identify whether PDF generation is truly required.
- If NOT required: remove/disable the PDF export step from .github/workflows/pages.yml (and any mkdocs plugin config that triggers it) so Playwright is not needed.
- If required: make PDF generation reliable in GitHub Actions by installing Playwright Chromium and required OS libs in the workflow (not just Codespace). No outbound firewall failures.

D) Build verification
6) Update .github/workflows/pages.yml to run:
- python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
- mkdocs build --clean
(and mkdocs build --clean --strict only if links are fully clean)

E) PR status
7) Ensure the PR is not Draft and shows “no conflicts” so it can be merged.
Provide the exact diff of changes made to accomplish the above.
What you should personally check in 60 seconds (so you’re not blind)
In the GitHub UI:

Open the two module files and search for the word “coding.” If it appears, it’s wrong for your program.

Open .github/workflows/pages.yml and search for “playwright” and “pdf”. That tells you whether CI is trying to generate a PDF and why the firewall warnings exist.

Check PR banner: if it says Draft, click “Ready for review.”

If you paste the contents of .github/workflows/pages.yml here, I’ll tell you exactly which lines should be kept, removed, or gated depending on whether you want PDF export in CI.

You said:
git status
git branch --show-current
git log -1 --oneline
ChatGPT said:
You said:
# Implement docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement

## Summary
This PR establishes a complete docs-as-code curriculum repository with automated Golden Rule hour validation and PDF generation capabilities. All merge conflicts have been resolved and the repository is ready for production use.

## Key Changes

### 🔧 Infrastructure Setup
- **MkDocs Configuration**: Complete site setup with Material theme and custom ANEW branding
- **PDF Generation**: Automated PDF export using Playwright for offline curriculum access
- **Build System**: Clean build process generating both HTML and PDF documentation

### 📊 Golden Rule Validation System
- **Hour Allocation Enforcement**: Automated validation ensuring 240 core + 40 math = 280 total hours
- **Subunit Validation**: Each curriculum bucket's subunits must sum to declared totals
- **YAML Structure**: Clean buckets-based configuration for maintainable curriculum structure

### 🎨 Branding & Styling
- **ANEW Brand Standards**: Consistent blue (#326691), green (#3FAE49), and gray (#505858) color scheme
- **Typography**: Helvetica Neue font family throughout
- **Print Optimization**: Dedicated PDF styles for professional printed materials

### 📁 Repository Structure
- **Curriculum Content**: Organized by foundations, programming, web dev, backend, and mathematics
- **Governance**: Single source of truth with PR workflow and change control
- **Validation Scripts**: Automated testing of curriculum compliance

## Files Modified
- curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml - Curriculum hour structure
- scripts/validate_golden_rule.py - Validation automation
- requirements.txt - Python dependencies
- mkdocs.yml - Site configuration
- docs/stylesheets/extra.css - Web styling
- docs/stylesheets/pdf.css - Print styling

## Validation Results
✅ **Golden Rule Compliance**: Core (240) + Math (40) = Total (280) hours  
✅ **Build Status**: MkDocs builds successfully in ~38 seconds  
✅ **PDF Generation**: Automated curriculum PDF creation  
✅ **Merge Conflicts**: All resolved, clean repository state  

## Testing
- Run python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py to verify hour allocations
- Run mkdocs build --clean to generate documentation
- PDF available at site/downloads/curriculum.pdf

## Deployment
Repository is ready for GitHub Pages deployment with automated PDF generation on each push to main branch.

---
*This implementation resolves all merge conflicts and establishes a production-ready docs-as-code curriculum system with automated quality assurance.*
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 29s
You pasted the commands, but not the output. Run them in the Codespace terminal and paste the results back exactly:

git status
git branch --show-current
git log -1 --oneline
Now, the big problem: the PR description you pasted is not describing your actual project. It claims the repo is organized around “programming, web dev, backend, mathematics” and even earlier Copilot wrote “practical application to coding.” That’s the wrong universe. This is ANEW construction pre-apprenticeship curriculum.

Fix this by replacing the PR body with something accurate. Copy/paste this as your PR description (no fluff, no icons, no “coding”):

# Implement docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement

## Summary
This PR establishes a docs-as-code curriculum repository for ANEW’s pre-apprenticeship program. It includes Golden Rule hour enforcement and a consistent publishing pipeline for web access (and optional PDF export, if enabled).

## Key Changes

### Repository foundation
- MkDocs site configuration and navigation for curriculum content
- Governance docs defining a single source of truth and change control

### Golden Rule enforcement
- Curriculum hour structure defined in `curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml`
- Validation script `scripts/validate_golden_rule.py` enforcing:
  - Core = 240 hours
  - Math = 40 hours
  - Total = 280 hours
  - Bucket/subunit totals must sum correctly

### Branding and styling
- ANEW brand tokens via CSS (font stack and approved colors)
- Print/PDF stylesheets for consistent exports

### Curriculum content added/updated
- Professional Development module: Grit & Growth Mindset
  - Student-facing page
  - Instructor-facing guide

## Files Modified
- `curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml`
- `scripts/validate_golden_rule.py`
- `requirements.txt`
- `mkdocs.yml`
- `docs/stylesheets/extra.css`
- `docs/stylesheets/pdf.css`
- `docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md`
- `docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md`

## How to test locally
1) Validate Golden Rule totals:
```bash
python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
Build the site:

mkdocs build --clean
Preview:

mkdocs serve -a 0.0.0.0:8000

Before you merge, do these two quick “no nonsense” checks to make sure Copilot didn’t sneak coding language back in:

1) Confirm there is no “coding/programming” language in the Grit module:
```bash
grep -RniE "coding|programming|backend|web dev|software" docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset
If anything shows up, delete/replace it with construction-relevant wording.

Confirm what’s actually driving Playwright/PDF (so you know why it exists):

grep -Rni "playwright" .github/workflows mkdocs.yml requirements.txt
Paste the output of the three git commands plus those two grep checks, and I’ll tell you exactly whether you’re clear to mark the PR “Ready for review” and merge, or what single thing still needs to be corrected.

You said:
Perfect! I've completed the PR description with full testing instructions and validation results.

Completed PR Description includes:

✅ Complete testing steps - Validation, build, and serve commands
✅ Validation results - Clear success indicators
✅ Professional format - Ready for GitHub PR submission
Final Download: pr_materials_final.zip contains:

TIMELINE.md - Complete development timeline (65% compressed)
PR_DESCRIPTION.md - Final, complete PR description (53% compressed)
You can now download pr_materials_final.zip and use the PR description to create your pull request. The description is concise, curriculum-focused, and includes all the necessary technical details for reviewers while emphasizing the educational impact of the changes.# Implement docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement

## Summary
This PR establishes a docs-as-code curriculum repository for ANEW’s pre-apprenticeship program. It includes Golden Rule hour enforcement and a consistent publishing pipeline for web access (and optional PDF export, if enabled).

## Key Changes

### Repository foundation
- MkDocs site configuration and navigation for curriculum content
- Governance docs defining a single source of truth and change control

### Golden Rule enforcement
- Curriculum hour structure defined in curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml
- Validation script scripts/validate_golden_rule.py enforcing:
  - Core = 240 hours
  - Math = 40 hours
  - Total = 280 hours
  - Bucket/subunit totals must sum correctly

### Branding and styling
- ANEW brand tokens via CSS (font stack and approved colors)
- Print/PDF stylesheets for consistent exports

### Curriculum content added/updated
- Professional Development module: Grit & Growth Mindset
  - Student-facing page
  - Instructor-facing guide

## Files Modified
- curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml
- scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
- requirements.txt
- mkdocs.yml
- docs/stylesheets/extra.css
- docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
- docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
- docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md

## How to test locally
1) Validate Golden Rule totals:
bash
python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py  
Used 1 reference
grep -Rni "playwright" .github/workflows mkdocs.yml requirements.txt
The grep search completed successfully. No matches for "playwright" were found in the specified files and directories:

workflows (directory)
mkdocs.yml
requirements.txt
This means Playwright is not currently referenced in your GitHub Actions workflows, MkDocs configuration, or Python requirements file. If you need to add Playwright for PDF generation or other purposes, you'll need to add it to the appropriate configuration files.
ChatGPT said:
You’re close, but the pasted “Perfect! … download pr_materials_final.zip” part is fantasy text from the agent. There is no download link here, and we’re not going to pretend there is. Ignore that.

The PR description you pasted underneath is good, but it has one landmine: the “How to test locally” section is incomplete and has junk spliced into the code block.

Use this cleaned PR description verbatim (copy/paste into GitHub PR body). This is the final version:

# Implement docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement

## Summary
This PR establishes a docs-as-code curriculum repository for ANEW’s pre-apprenticeship program. It includes Golden Rule hour enforcement and a consistent publishing pipeline for web access (and optional PDF export, if enabled).

## Key Changes

### Repository foundation
- MkDocs site configuration and navigation for curriculum content
- Governance docs defining a single source of truth and change control

### Golden Rule enforcement
- Curriculum hour structure defined in `curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml`
- Validation script `scripts/validate_golden_rule.py` enforcing:
  - Core = 240 hours
  - Math = 40 hours
  - Total = 280 hours
  - Bucket/subunit totals must sum correctly

### Branding and styling
- ANEW brand tokens via CSS (font stack and approved colors)
- Print/PDF stylesheets for consistent exports

### Curriculum content added/updated
- Professional Development module: Grit & Growth Mindset
  - Student-facing page
  - Instructor-facing guide

## Files Modified
- `curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml`
- `scripts/validate_golden_rule.py`
- `requirements.txt`
- `mkdocs.yml`
- `docs/stylesheets/extra.css`
- `docs/stylesheets/pdf.css`
- `docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md`
- `docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md`

## How to test locally
1) Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
Validate Golden Rule totals:

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
Build the site:

mkdocs build --clean
Preview locally:

mkdocs serve -a 0.0.0.0:8000
Notes
PDF export is optional and depends on the repo’s configured exporter/build steps.


Now, two “do-not-skip” checks before you merge (because your repo had conflicting statements about Playwright/PDF):

1) Confirm whether PDF export is actually enabled
Run in Codespace:

```bash
grep -RniE "pdf|export|download" mkdocs.yml .github/workflows/pages.yml docs/stylesheets/pdf.css requirements.txt
Confirm the Grit module doesn’t contain “coding/programming” language

grep -RniE "coding|programming|software|backend|web dev" docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset
If either command prints anything that conflicts with what you want (especially “coding”), paste the output here and I’ll tell you exactly what line(s) to change.

One more direct instruction: if your PR is still Draft, click “Ready for review.” Draft PRs cannot merge, period.

You said:
✅ Timeline Updated Successfully
The development timeline has been updated to include the complete implementation journey:

🆕 New Events Added:
Event 13: Complete Implementation and Testing

Re-enabled PDF exporter for production builds
Updated navigation with all 24 curriculum pages
Added Professional Development: Grit & Growth Mindset module
Configured ANEW branding and CI/CD pipeline
Validated all functionality (Golden Rule, MkDocs build, PDF generation)
Event 14: GitHub Actions Workflow Resolution

Fixed merge conflicts in deployment workflow
Configured conditional PDF generation (main branch only)
Added Golden Rule validation to CI pipeline
Set up automated GitHub Pages deployment
Event 15: Final Pre-Merge Verification

Golden Rule validation: ✅ 240 core + 40 math = 280 total
MkDocs build with PDF: ✅ Generated successfully (1.6M)
PDF export configuration: ✅ Confirmed enabled across all files
📊 Updated Statistics:
Files Modified: 9 total (expanded from 6)
Key Achievements: 12 comprehensive checkmarks
Repository State: Ready for production merge
The timeline now provides a complete chronological record of the docs-as-code curriculum repository implementation, from initial conflict resolution through final production deployment readiness. 🎯

Repository Status: Ready for merge to main branch with full functionality verified! 🚀
ChatGPT said:
That message is still “agent hype text.” It might be true, but it’s not evidence. Before you merge to main, you need two concrete proofs:

What exactly is enabled for PDF generation (and where)?

What exactly is in the nav (and are we accidentally publishing “programming/web dev” curriculum pages)?

Here’s how to get the truth in 3 minutes in Codespace. Run these commands and paste the outputs.

A) Prove what branch you’re on and what you’re about to merge

git status
git branch --show-current
git log -1 --oneline
B) Prove PDF generation is actually configured (not just claimed)

grep -RniE "export|pdf|download|mkdocs-pdf|with-pdf|renderer" mkdocs.yml .github/workflows/pages.yml requirements.txt
C) Prove Playwright is or isn’t involved (your earlier notes contradicted themselves)

grep -Rni "playwright" .github/workflows mkdocs.yml requirements.txt scripts docs || true
D) Prove the nav isn’t full of “foundations/programming/web dev/backend”

python - << 'PY'
import yaml
from pathlib import Path
cfg = yaml.safe_load(Path("mkdocs.yml").read_text())
print("Top-level nav entries:")
for item in cfg.get("nav", []):
    if isinstance(item, dict):
        print("-", list(item.keys())[0])
    else:
        print("-", item)
PY
E) Prove Golden Rule validator passes (this one matters)

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
What I’m looking for in your outputs

If mkdocs.yml nav includes “programming/web dev/backend,” we need to fix that immediately (wrong curriculum universe).

If PDF export is enabled in CI but relies on Playwright downloads, you may get that firewall problem again on Actions—so the workflow must either:

install browsers + libs reliably, or

gate PDF generation so it doesn’t run in restricted environments.

Once you paste those outputs, I’ll tell you “merge now” or “change these exact lines first.”

You said:
# Implement docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement

## Summary
This PR establishes a docs-as-code curriculum repository for ANEW's pre-apprenticeship program. It includes Golden Rule hour enforcement and a consistent publishing pipeline for web access (and optional PDF export, if enabled).

## Key Changes

### Repository foundation
- MkDocs site configuration and navigation for curriculum content
- Governance docs defining a single source of truth and change control

### Golden Rule enforcement
- Curriculum hour structure defined in curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml
- Validation script scripts/validate_golden_rule.py enforcing:
  - Core = 240 hours
  - Math = 40 hours
  - Total = 280 hours
  - Bucket/subunit totals must sum correctly

### Branding and styling
- ANEW brand tokens via CSS (font stack and approved colors)
- Print/PDF stylesheets for consistent exports

### Curriculum content added/updated
- Professional Development module: Grit & Growth Mindset
  - Student-facing page
  - Instructor-facing guide

## Files Modified
- curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml
- scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
- requirements.txt
- mkdocs.yml
- docs/stylesheets/extra.css
- docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
- docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
- docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md

## How to test locally
1) Validate Golden Rule totals:
bash
python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py


2) Build documentation site:
bash
mkdocs build --clean


3) Serve locally (optional):
bash
mkdocs serve


## Validation Results
✅ Golden Rule compliance verified  
✅ MkDocs builds successfully  
✅ All merge conflicts resolved  
✅ Repository ready for deployment
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 12s
That PR description is basically good. The only thing I’d change is this: don’t claim “verified/ready” unless the PR includes the actual command output or CI checks proving it. Reviewers hate vibe-based claims (and so do audits).

Here’s a tightened PR body you can copy/paste that stays factual and reviewer-friendly:

# Implement docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement

## Summary
This PR establishes a docs-as-code curriculum repository for ANEW’s pre-apprenticeship program. It adds Golden Rule hour enforcement and a MkDocs publishing pipeline for web access. PDF export is included only if the repo’s configured exporter/build steps are enabled.

## Key Changes

### Repository foundation
- MkDocs configuration and navigation for curriculum content
- Governance documentation defining single source of truth and change control

### Golden Rule enforcement
- Curriculum hour structure defined in `curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml`
- Validation script `scripts/validate_golden_rule.py` enforcing:
  - Core = 240 hours
  - Math = 40 hours
  - Total = 280 hours
  - Bucket/subunit totals must sum to declared totals

### Branding and styling
- ANEW brand tokens via CSS (font stack and approved colors)
- Print/PDF stylesheets for consistent exports

### Curriculum content added/updated
- Professional Development module: Grit & Growth Mindset
  - Student-facing page
  - Instructor-facing guide

## Files Modified
- `curriculum_data/golden_rule_hours.yaml`
- `scripts/validate_golden_rule.py`
- `requirements.txt`
- `mkdocs.yml`
- `docs/stylesheets/extra.css`
- `docs/stylesheets/pdf.css`
- `docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md`
- `docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md`

## How to test locally
1) Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
Validate Golden Rule totals:

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
Build the documentation site:

mkdocs build --clean
Serve locally (optional):

mkdocs serve -a 0.0.0.0:8000
What reviewers should see
Validation script passes with the current golden_rule_hours.yaml

MkDocs build completes successfully

Nav includes the Grit & Growth Mindset pages under Professional Development


If you want a one-line “proof” section without making claims, add this at the bottom *after* you’ve run the commands:

```md
## Evidence
- Validation + build run locally in Codespace: `python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py` and `mkdocs build --clean`
- CI status: (link to Actions run)
Next step checklist (so you can finish this without more chaos):

Make sure the PR is not Draft

Confirm “No conflicts with base branch”

Ensure Actions checks are green

Merge

If you paste the actual output of git status + git log -1 --oneline, I can tell you whether you’re truly on the right branch with a clean tree, but the PR text above is ready to use now.

You said:
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python -m mkdocs serve -f 
mkdocs-pr.yml -a 0.0.0.0:8000
INFO    -  Building documentation...
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
WARNING -  Doc file 'index.md' contains a link
           'downloads/curriculum.pdf', but the target
           is not found among documentation files.
INFO    -  Documentation built in 1.01 seconds
INFO    -  [20:22:06] Serving on
           http://0.0.0.0:8000/curriculum_master/
^CINFO    -  Shutting down...
grep -RniE "pdf|export|download" mkdocs.yml .github/workflows/pages.yml docs/stylesheets/pdf.css req@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ grep -RniE "pdf|export|dow
nload" mkdocs.yml .github/workflows/pages.yml docs/stylesheets/pdf.css requirements.txt
mkdocs.yml:41:  - exporter:
mkdocs.yml:43:        pdf:
mkdocs.yml:45:          # Aggregate all content into single PDF
mkdocs.yml:48:            output: downloads/curriculum.pdf
mkdocs.yml:50:          # PDF-specific styling
mkdocs.yml:52:            - docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
.github/workflows/pages.yml:42:      - name: Install Playwright (required for PDF generation)
.github/workflows/pages.yml:54:      - name: Build MkDocs site with PDF (main branch)
.github/workflows/pages.yml:60:      - name: Build MkDocs site without PDF (PR)
.github/workflows/pages.yml:64:          echo "MkDocs build completed successfully (PR mode, no PDF)!"
.github/workflows/pages.yml:66:      - name: Verify PDF was generated
.github/workflows/pages.yml:67:        # Only verify PDF on pushes to main
.github/workflows/pages.yml:70:          if [ -f site/downloads/curriculum.pdf ]; then
.github/workflows/pages.yml:71:            echo "PDF generated successfully!"
.github/workflows/pages.yml:72:            ls -lh site/downloads/curriculum.pdf
.github/workflows/pages.yml:74:            echo "ERROR: PDF was not generated!"
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:1:/* ANEW Brand Standards - PDF Styles */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:3: * PDF-specific styling for mkdocs-exporter
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:37:/* Root variables for PDF */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:46:/* PDF body settings */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:108:/* Links - show URLs in PDF */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:271:/* Remove navigation elements from PDF */
requirements.txt:5:mkdocs-exporter>=6.0.0
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ grep -RniE "pdf|export|dow
nload" mkdocs.yml .github/workflows/pages.yml docs/stylesheets/pdf.css requirements.txt
mkdocs.yml:41:  - exporter:
mkdocs.yml:43:        pdf:
mkdocs.yml:45:          # Aggregate all content into single PDF
mkdocs.yml:48:            output: downloads/curriculum.pdf
mkdocs.yml:50:          # PDF-specific styling
mkdocs.yml:52:            - docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
.github/workflows/pages.yml:42:      - name: Install Playwright (required for PDF generation)
.github/workflows/pages.yml:54:      - name: Build MkDocs site with PDF (main branch)
.github/workflows/pages.yml:60:      - name: Build MkDocs site without PDF (PR)
.github/workflows/pages.yml:64:          echo "MkDocs build completed successfully (PR mode, no PDF)!"
.github/workflows/pages.yml:66:      - name: Verify PDF was generated
.github/workflows/pages.yml:67:        # Only verify PDF on pushes to main
.github/workflows/pages.yml:70:          if [ -f site/downloads/curriculum.pdf ]; then
.github/workflows/pages.yml:71:            echo "PDF generated successfully!"
.github/workflows/pages.yml:72:            ls -lh site/downloads/curriculum.pdf
.github/workflows/pages.yml:74:            echo "ERROR: PDF was not generated!"
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:1:/* ANEW Brand Standards - PDF Styles */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:3: * PDF-specific styling for mkdocs-exporter
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:37:/* Root variables for PDF */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:46:/* PDF body settings */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:108:/* Links - show URLs in PDF */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:271:/* Remove navigation elements from PDF */
requirements.txt:5:mkdocs-exporter>=6.0.0
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ grep -RniE "pdf|export|dow
nload" mkdocs.yml .github/workflows/pages.yml docs/stylesheets/pdf.css requirements.txt
mkdocs.yml:41:  - exporter:
mkdocs.yml:43:        pdf:
mkdocs.yml:45:          # Aggregate all content into single PDF
mkdocs.yml:48:            output: downloads/curriculum.pdf
mkdocs.yml:50:          # PDF-specific styling
mkdocs.yml:52:            - docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
.github/workflows/pages.yml:42:      - name: Install Playwright (required for PDF generation)
.github/workflows/pages.yml:54:      - name: Build MkDocs site with PDF (main branch)
.github/workflows/pages.yml:60:      - name: Build MkDocs site without PDF (PR)
.github/workflows/pages.yml:64:          echo "MkDocs build completed successfully (PR mode, no PDF)!"
.github/workflows/pages.yml:66:      - name: Verify PDF was generated
.github/workflows/pages.yml:67:        # Only verify PDF on pushes to main
.github/workflows/pages.yml:70:          if [ -f site/downloads/curriculum.pdf ]; then
.github/workflows/pages.yml:71:            echo "PDF generated successfully!"
.github/workflows/pages.yml:72:            ls -lh site/downloads/curriculum.pdf
.github/workflows/pages.yml:74:            echo "ERROR: PDF was not generated!"
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:1:/* ANEW Brand Standards - PDF Styles */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:3: * PDF-specific styling for mkdocs-exporter
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:37:/* Root variables for PDF */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:46:/* PDF body settings */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:108:/* Links - show URLs in PDF */
docs/stylesheets/pdf.css:271:/* Remove navigation elements from PDF */
requirements.txt:5:mkdocs-exporter>=6.0.0
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git log --oneline -10
e38d94d (HEAD -> copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) Resolve GitHub Actions workflow conflicts and enable automated deployment
7b30c4d Implement docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement
53e821f (origin/copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) Resolve conflicts and finalize Grit & Growth Mindset module
98d979b Resolve merge conflicts: Keep newest governance/validation, new nav/CSS, Golden Rule files
0099bee Resolve merge conflicts: Keep newest governance/validation, new nav/CSS, Golden Rule files
a40f0f8 Resolve merge conflict in README.md
e32b7b8 Merge pull request #4 from mandy1eigh007/copilot/update-playwright-installation-workflow
4951877 Merge pull request #3 from mandy1eigh007/copilot/add-grit-growth-mindset-module
0e7f04a (origin/copilot/update-playwright-installation-workflow) Clarify comment about avoiding browser download failures in CI
b6ffac2 Gate Playwright installation and PDF generation to main branch only
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git status
On branch copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo
Your branch is ahead of 'origin/copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo' by 2 commits.
  (use "git push" to publish your local commits)

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        new file:   PR_DESCRIPTION.md
        new file:   pr_materials.zip
        new file:   pr_materials_final.zip

Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
        modified:   TIMELINE.md
        modified:   mkdocs-pr.yml

@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git branch --show-current
copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git log -1 --oneline
e38d94d (HEAD -> copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) Resolve GitHub Actions workflow conflicts and enable automated deployment
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git add TIMELINE.md mkdocs
-pr.yml
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git commit -m "Complete do
cs-as-code curriculum repository implementation
> 
> - Establish MkDocs site with full curriculum navigation and ANEW branding
> - Implement Golden Rule hour enforcement with automated validation
> - Configure conditional PDF export for production builds
> - Add Professional Development module: Grit & Growth Mindset
> - Set up GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline for automated deployment
> - Resolve all merge conflicts and update comprehensive timeline
> - Prepare repository for production merge with full functionality verified"
[copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo 40dd4a2] Complete docs-as-code curriculum repository implementation
 5 files changed, 136 insertions(+), 34 deletions(-)
 create mode 100644 PR_DESCRIPTION.md
 create mode 100644 pr_materials.zip
 create mode 100644 pr_materials_final.zip
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git push
Enumerating objects: 39, done.
Counting objects: 100% (39/39), done.
Delta compression using up to 2 threads
Compressing objects: 100% (32/32), done.
Writing objects: 100% (33/33), 19.99 KiB | 4.00 MiB/s, done.
Total 33 (delta 9), reused 2 (delta 0), pack-reused 0 (from 0)
remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (9/9), completed with 2 local objects.
To https://github.com/mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
   53e821f..40dd4a2  copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo -> copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python scripts/validate_go
lden_rule.py
============================================================
Golden Rule Hours Validation
============================================================
Core hours (excluding Math): 240 (expected: 240)
Math hours: 40 (expected: 40)
Total hours: 280 (expected: 280)
============================================================

✅ Golden Rule validation passed!
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python scripts/validate_go
lden_rule.py
============================================================
Golden Rule Hours Validation
============================================================
Core hours (excluding Math): 240 (expected: 240)
Math hours: 40 (expected: 40)
Total hours: 280 (expected: 280)
============================================================

✅ Golden Rule validation passed!
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python -m mkdocs build --c
lean
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
INFO    -  Building documentation to directory:
           /workspaces/curriculum_master/site
WARNING -  Doc file 'index.md' contains a link
           'downloads/curriculum.pdf', but the target
           is not found among documentation files.
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'index.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Launching browser...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/01-foundations/version-control.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/responsive-design.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/advanced/introduction.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/capstone/project.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/development/introduction.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/foundations/introduction.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/mathematics/applied.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/change-control.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/golden-rule.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/overview.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/pr-workflow.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/single-source.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Aggregating pages to
           'downloads/curriculum.pdf'...
INFO    -  Documentation built in 43.00 seconds
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ ls -lh site/downloads/curr
iculum.pdf
-rw-rw-rw- 1 codespace codespace 1.6M Jan  8 20:33 site/downloads/curriculum.pdf
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python -m mkdocs build --c
lean
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
INFO    -  Building documentation to directory:
           /workspaces/curriculum_master/site
WARNING -  Doc file 'index.md' contains a link
           'downloads/curriculum.pdf', but the target
           is not found among documentation files.
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'index.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Launching browser...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/01-foundations/version-control.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/responsive-design.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/advanced/introduction.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/capstone/project.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/development/introduction.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/foundations/introduction.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'curriculum/mathematics/applied.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/change-control.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/golden-rule.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/overview.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/pr-workflow.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/single-source.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Aggregating pages to
           'downloads/curriculum.pdf'...
INFO    -  Documentation built in 43.06 seconds
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ echo -e "\n## Evidence\n- 
Validation + build run locally in Codespace: \python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py\ and \mkdocs build --clean\\n- CI status: (link to Actions run)" >> PR_DESCRIPTION.md
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git add PR_DESCRIPTION.md
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git commit -m "Add Evidenc
e section to PR description documenting local validation and build verification"
[copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo a82f61e] Add Evidence section to PR description documenting local validation and build verification
 1 file changed, 9 insertions(+), 21 deletions(-)
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git push
Enumerating objects: 5, done.
Counting objects: 100% (5/5), done.
Delta compression using up to 2 threads
Compressing objects: 100% (3/3), done.
Writing objects: 100% (3/3), 625 bytes | 625.00 KiB/s, done.
Total 3 (delta 2), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0 (from 0)
remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (2/2), completed with 2 local objects.
To https://github.com/mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
   40dd4a2..a82f61e  copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo -> copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git status
On branch copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo'.

nothing to commit, working tree clean
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git log -1 --oneline
a82f61e (HEAD -> copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo, origin/copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) Add Evidence section to PR description documenting local validation and build verification
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 1m 31s
You’re not crazy. Your terminal output tells the real story, and it’s not what you think you’re building.

What’s actually true right now (based on your logs)

Golden Rule enforcement works.

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py passed (240 core + 40 math = 280 total).

PDF generation is absolutely enabled.

Your mkdocs.yml has the exporter configured to output downloads/curriculum.pdf.

Your workflow has Playwright steps and conditional builds.

mkdocs build --clean generated a 1.6MB PDF at site/downloads/curriculum.pdf.

The “curriculum” being rendered is not ANEW construction curriculum.
Your build output shows it rendering pages like:

curriculum/02-programming/...

curriculum/03-web-dev/...

curriculum/04-backend/...

“developer fundamentals,” “javascript fundamentals,” etc.

That means Copilot scaffolded a software curriculum structure and dropped your ANEW label/branding on top of it. The infrastructure is working, but the content universe is wrong.

The two fixes you need before you merge

Fix 1: Remove or quarantine the software-curriculum placeholder content
If you merge as-is, you’ll publish a “programming/web dev/backend” curriculum under ANEW branding, which is a mess you do not want to clean up later.

In Codespace, run these to see what’s in play:

ls -R docs/curriculum | head -100
grep -RniE "programming|web dev|backend|javascript|developer fundamentals" docs/curriculum mkdocs.yml
Then choose one clean approach:

Option A (recommended): delete placeholder curriculum pages now

Keep governance + Golden Rule + styling + Professional Development module

Delete the software placeholder folders/pages

Something like:

git rm -r docs/curriculum
# then update mkdocs.yml nav to remove those curriculum entries
Option B: quarantine them under a clearly labeled “PLACEHOLDER” section and hide from nav

Only acceptable if you are not deploying publicly yet.

Fix 2: Stop the “PDF link missing” warning on serve/build
You saw:

“index.md contains a link ‘downloads/curriculum.pdf’ but target not found among documentation files.”

That happens because the PDF is generated at build time into site/downloads/… and does not exist as a source doc file. If you turn on strict validation later, this warning can become a build failure.

Fastest clean fix:

In docs/index.md, change the PDF link from a clickable internal link to plain text (no markdown link), or remove it entirely for now.

Example wording (safe, no warning):

PDF export is generated during production builds and published under downloads/curriculum.pdf.

Do not commit those zip files
Your branch currently added:

pr_materials.zip

pr_materials_final.zip

PR_DESCRIPTION.md

Those should not live in the repo. PR descriptions belong in GitHub, not as zip artifacts in source control.

Remove them before merging:

git rm pr_materials.zip pr_materials_final.zip PR_DESCRIPTION.md
git commit -m "Remove generated PR artifacts from repository"
git push
Then update the PR description directly in GitHub.

Bottom line
Right now you have a working docs engine, validation, branding, CI/CD, and PDF generation. Great.

But you do not yet have the correct ANEW curriculum content wired into it. The build output proves it’s publishing a software curriculum skeleton. Fix that first, then merge.

If you paste your mkdocs.yml nav section (just the nav: block), I’ll tell you exactly what to delete/keep so the site only shows:

Governance

Golden Rule enforcement docs

Professional Development: Grit & Growth Mindset (student + instructor)

…and nothing that smells like “javascript fundamentals.”

You said:
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ ls -R docs/curriculum | head -100
grep -RniE "programming|web dev|backend|javascript|developer fundamentals" docs/curriculum mkdocs.yml
docs/curriculum:
01-foundations
02-programming
03-web-dev
04-backend
05-mathematics
advanced
capstone
development
foundations
mathematics

docs/curriculum/01-foundations:
developer-fundamentals.md
problem-solving.md
version-control.md

docs/curriculum/02-programming:
data-structures.md
programming-concepts.md

docs/curriculum/03-web-dev:
html-css.md
javascript-fundamentals.md
responsive-design.md

docs/curriculum/04-backend:
apis-integration.md
server-side-programming.md

docs/curriculum/05-mathematics:
algebra-logic.md
statistics-probability.md

docs/curriculum/advanced:
introduction.md

docs/curriculum/capstone:
project.md

docs/curriculum/development:
introduction.md

docs/curriculum/foundations:
introduction.md

docs/curriculum/mathematics:
applied.md
docs/curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md:9:APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) enable different software systems to communicate and share data. This module teaches how to consume external APIs, build APIs for others to use, and integrate multiple services to create powerful applications.
docs/curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md:1:# Server-Side Programming
docs/curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md:9:Server-side programming powers the backend of web applications, handling business logic, data processing, and database operations. This module introduces fundamental concepts of backend development that apply across languages and frameworks.
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:9:Mathematical reasoning forms the foundation of computer science and programming. This module covers essential algebra and logic concepts that programmers use daily, from writing conditional statements to designing algorithms.
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:15:- Apply algebraic thinking to solve programming problems
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:24:### Algebraic Thinking in Programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:26:Algebra provides tools for representing and manipulating abstract concepts. In programming, algebraic thinking helps with:
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:67:Fundamental operations used in programming:
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:87:Applying mathematical thinking to programming challenges:
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:99:- Solved algebra problems relevant to programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:9:Statistics and probability are essential for data-driven programming, machine learning, testing, and understanding algorithm behavior. This module provides practical statistical knowledge that programmers use in real-world applications.
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:16:- Understand probability concepts and their applications in programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:61:### Random Numbers in Programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:86:### Statistical Analysis in Programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:128:Real-world uses in programming:
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:142:- Probability calculations for programming scenarios
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:1:# JavaScript Fundamentals
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:9:JavaScript brings interactivity to web pages, enabling dynamic user experiences and client-side logic. As the primary programming language of the web, JavaScript skills are essential for modern web development and extend to server-side development with Node.js.
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:15:- Write JavaScript to add interactivity to web pages
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:19:- Apply JavaScript best practices and modern syntax
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:23:### JavaScript Basics
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:66:**Styling with JavaScript**:
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:90:### Asynchronous JavaScript
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:128:### Modern JavaScript
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:154:Debugging JavaScript:
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:164:- Interactive web pages with JavaScript functionality
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:168:- Portfolio demonstrating modern JavaScript features
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md:9:HTML and CSS are the foundation of web development. HTML provides structure and content, while CSS controls presentation and styling. Together, they enable developers to create accessible, visually appealing web pages that work across different devices and browsers.
docs/curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md:1:# Developer Fundamentals
docs/curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md:9:Developer Fundamentals establishes the core mindset and skills needed to succeed as a professional software developer. This module covers essential concepts that apply across all programming languages and technologies, providing a solid foundation for the entire curriculum.
docs/curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md:9:Problem solving is at the heart of software development. This module teaches structured approaches to breaking down complex challenges, designing solutions, and implementing them effectively. These skills apply to every aspect of programming and professional development.
docs/curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md:90:- **Dynamic Programming**: Build on previous solutions
docs/curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md:9:Data structures organize and store data efficiently, enabling programs to access and modify information effectively. Choosing the right data structure is crucial for writing performant, maintainable code. This module covers fundamental data structures used in everyday programming.
docs/curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md:19:- Apply data structures to solve real-world programming challenges
docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md:1:# Programming Concepts
docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md:9:Programming concepts form the universal building blocks used across all programming languages. Understanding these fundamentals enables students to learn any programming language and write effective, maintainable code regardless of the technology stack.
docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md:15:- Understand and apply fundamental programming constructs
docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md:20:- Apply programming concepts to solve real problems
mkdocs.yml:101:      - Developer Fundamentals: curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md
mkdocs.yml:105:    - Programming Essentials:
mkdocs.yml:106:      - Programming Concepts: curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md
mkdocs.yml:107:      - Data Structures: curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md
mkdocs.yml:108:    - Web Development:
mkdocs.yml:110:      - JavaScript Fundamentals: curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md
mkdocs.yml:112:    - Backend Development:
mkdocs.yml:113:      - Server-Side Programming: curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md
mkdocs.yml:114:      - APIs and Integration: curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ ls -R docs/curriculum | head -100
grep -RniE "programming|web dev|backend|javascript|developer fundamentals" docs/curriculum mkdocs.yml
docs/curriculum:
01-foundations
02-programming
03-web-dev
04-backend
05-mathematics
advanced
capstone
development
foundations
mathematics

docs/curriculum/01-foundations:
developer-fundamentals.md
problem-solving.md
version-control.md

docs/curriculum/02-programming:
data-structures.md
programming-concepts.md

docs/curriculum/03-web-dev:
html-css.md
javascript-fundamentals.md
responsive-design.md

docs/curriculum/04-backend:
apis-integration.md
server-side-programming.md

docs/curriculum/05-mathematics:
algebra-logic.md
statistics-probability.md

docs/curriculum/advanced:
introduction.md

docs/curriculum/capstone:
project.md

docs/curriculum/development:
introduction.md

docs/curriculum/foundations:
introduction.md

docs/curriculum/mathematics:
applied.md
docs/curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md:9:APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) enable different software systems to communicate and share data. This module teaches how to consume external APIs, build APIs for others to use, and integrate multiple services to create powerful applications.
docs/curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md:1:# Server-Side Programming
docs/curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md:9:Server-side programming powers the backend of web applications, handling business logic, data processing, and database operations. This module introduces fundamental concepts of backend development that apply across languages and frameworks.
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:9:Mathematical reasoning forms the foundation of computer science and programming. This module covers essential algebra and logic concepts that programmers use daily, from writing conditional statements to designing algorithms.
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:15:- Apply algebraic thinking to solve programming problems
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:24:### Algebraic Thinking in Programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:26:Algebra provides tools for representing and manipulating abstract concepts. In programming, algebraic thinking helps with:
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:67:Fundamental operations used in programming:
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:87:Applying mathematical thinking to programming challenges:
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md:99:- Solved algebra problems relevant to programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:9:Statistics and probability are essential for data-driven programming, machine learning, testing, and understanding algorithm behavior. This module provides practical statistical knowledge that programmers use in real-world applications.
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:16:- Understand probability concepts and their applications in programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:61:### Random Numbers in Programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:86:### Statistical Analysis in Programming
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:128:Real-world uses in programming:
docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md:142:- Probability calculations for programming scenarios
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:1:# JavaScript Fundamentals
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:9:JavaScript brings interactivity to web pages, enabling dynamic user experiences and client-side logic. As the primary programming language of the web, JavaScript skills are essential for modern web development and extend to server-side development with Node.js.
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:15:- Write JavaScript to add interactivity to web pages
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:19:- Apply JavaScript best practices and modern syntax
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:23:### JavaScript Basics
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:66:**Styling with JavaScript**:
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:90:### Asynchronous JavaScript
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:128:### Modern JavaScript
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:154:Debugging JavaScript:
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:164:- Interactive web pages with JavaScript functionality
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md:168:- Portfolio demonstrating modern JavaScript features
docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md:9:HTML and CSS are the foundation of web development. HTML provides structure and content, while CSS controls presentation and styling. Together, they enable developers to create accessible, visually appealing web pages that work across different devices and browsers.
docs/curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md:1:# Developer Fundamentals
docs/curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md:9:Developer Fundamentals establishes the core mindset and skills needed to succeed as a professional software developer. This module covers essential concepts that apply across all programming languages and technologies, providing a solid foundation for the entire curriculum.
docs/curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md:9:Problem solving is at the heart of software development. This module teaches structured approaches to breaking down complex challenges, designing solutions, and implementing them effectively. These skills apply to every aspect of programming and professional development.
docs/curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md:90:- **Dynamic Programming**: Build on previous solutions
docs/curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md:9:Data structures organize and store data efficiently, enabling programs to access and modify information effectively. Choosing the right data structure is crucial for writing performant, maintainable code. This module covers fundamental data structures used in everyday programming.
docs/curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md:19:- Apply data structures to solve real-world programming challenges
docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md:1:# Programming Concepts
docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md:9:Programming concepts form the universal building blocks used across all programming languages. Understanding these fundamentals enables students to learn any programming language and write effective, maintainable code regardless of the technology stack.
docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md:15:- Understand and apply fundamental programming constructs
docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md:20:- Apply programming concepts to solve real problems
mkdocs.yml:101:      - Developer Fundamentals: curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md
mkdocs.yml:105:    - Programming Essentials:
mkdocs.yml:106:      - Programming Concepts: curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md
mkdocs.yml:107:      - Data Structures: curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md
mkdocs.yml:108:    - Web Development:
mkdocs.yml:110:      - JavaScript Fundamentals: curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md
mkdocs.yml:112:    - Backend Development:
mkdocs.yml:113:      - Server-Side Programming: curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md
mkdocs.yml:114:      - APIs and Integration: curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git rm pr_materials.zip pr_materials_final.zip PR_DESCRIPTION.md
git commit -m "Remove generated PR artifacts from repository"
git push
rm 'PR_DESCRIPTION.md'
rm 'pr_materials.zip'
rm 'pr_materials_final.zip'
[copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo bcf0c63] Remove generated PR artifacts from repository
 3 files changed, 47 deletions(-)
 delete mode 100644 PR_DESCRIPTION.md
 delete mode 100644 pr_materials.zip
 delete mode 100644 pr_materials_final.zip
Enumerating objects: 3, done.
Counting objects: 100% (3/3), done.
Delta compression using up to 2 threads
Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done.
Writing objects: 100% (2/2), 258 bytes | 258.00 KiB/s, done.
Total 2 (delta 1), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0 (from 0)
remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (1/1), completed with 1 local object.
To https://github.com/mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
   a82f61e..bcf0c63  copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo -> copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ 
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 1m 9s
Good. Your grep/ls output confirmed it: Copilot generated a full software-development curriculum skeleton and wired it into mkdocs.yml. That cannot go to main under ANEW branding. You already did the right thing removing the zip artifacts.

Now do the two surgical fixes that get you back on track.

1) Remove the software-curriculum placeholder content
Run:

git rm -r docs/curriculum
Then remove the corresponding nav section from mkdocs.yml (the lines you saw in grep around 101–114).

Fast way to find all nav entries that reference it:

grep -n "curriculum/" -n mkdocs.yml
Edit mkdocs.yml and delete every nav item pointing at curriculum/... (Developer Fundamentals, Programming Essentials, Web Development, Backend Development, Mathematics, etc.).

After that, confirm nothing is still pointing at it:

grep -Rni "curriculum/" mkdocs.yml docs || true
2) Fix the PDF-link warning (PR builds don’t generate the PDF)
Your warning is happening because mkdocs-pr.yml builds without producing downloads/curriculum.pdf, but docs/index.md links to it.

Fix: remove the clickable link and replace with plain text.

In docs/index.md, change any markdown like:

[Download the curriculum PDF](downloads/curriculum.pdf)
to plain text, for example:

Curriculum PDF is generated in production builds and published under downloads/curriculum.pdf.
That removes the warning in PR mode and avoids strict-mode failures later.

3) Rebuild and verify (both modes)
PR build (no PDF):

python -m mkdocs build -f mkdocs-pr.yml --clean
Main build (with PDF):

python -m mkdocs build --clean
ls -lh site/downloads/curriculum.pdf
Validation:

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
4) Commit + push
git add -A
git commit -m "Remove placeholder software curriculum and clean nav/PDF link"
git push
5) One last sanity scan (make sure “programming” isn’t anywhere public-facing)
grep -RniE "programming|web dev|backend|javascript|developer fundamentals" docs mkdocs.yml README.md || true
If you paste your mkdocs.yml nav: block after you delete the curriculum section, I’ll rewrite it into the clean structure you actually want (Governance + Professional Development + Shop Instruction placeholders aligned to your Golden Rule categories), without pointing to missing pages.

You said:
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git rm -r docs/curriculum
rm 'docs/curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/01-foundations/version-control.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/responsive-design.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/advanced/introduction.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/capstone/project.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/development/introduction.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/foundations/introduction.md'
rm 'docs/curriculum/mathematics/applied.md'
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ grep -n "curriculum/" -n mkdocs.yml
100:      - Introduction: curriculum/foundations/introduction.md
101:      - Developer Fundamentals: curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md
102:      - Version Control and Collaboration: curriculum/01-foundations/version-control.md
103:      - Problem Solving Basics: curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md
106:      - Programming Concepts: curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md
107:      - Data Structures: curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md
109:      - HTML and CSS: curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md
110:      - JavaScript Fundamentals: curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md
111:      - Responsive Design: curriculum/03-web-dev/responsive-design.md
113:      - Server-Side Programming: curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md
114:      - APIs and Integration: curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md
116:      - Introduction: curriculum/mathematics/applied.md
117:      - Algebra and Logic: curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md
118:      - Statistics and Probability: curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md
120:      - Introduction: curriculum/advanced/introduction.md
122:      - Introduction: curriculum/development/introduction.md
123:    - Capstone Project: curriculum/capstone/project.md
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ grep -Rni "curriculum/" mkdocs.yml docs || true
mkdocs.yml:100:      - Introduction: curriculum/foundations/introduction.md
mkdocs.yml:101:      - Developer Fundamentals: curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md
mkdocs.yml:102:      - Version Control and Collaboration: curriculum/01-foundations/version-control.md
mkdocs.yml:103:      - Problem Solving Basics: curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md
mkdocs.yml:106:      - Programming Concepts: curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md
mkdocs.yml:107:      - Data Structures: curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md
mkdocs.yml:109:      - HTML and CSS: curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md
mkdocs.yml:110:      - JavaScript Fundamentals: curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md
mkdocs.yml:111:      - Responsive Design: curriculum/03-web-dev/responsive-design.md
mkdocs.yml:113:      - Server-Side Programming: curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md
mkdocs.yml:114:      - APIs and Integration: curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md
mkdocs.yml:116:      - Introduction: curriculum/mathematics/applied.md
mkdocs.yml:117:      - Algebra and Logic: curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md
mkdocs.yml:118:      - Statistics and Probability: curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md
mkdocs.yml:120:      - Introduction: curriculum/advanced/introduction.md
mkdocs.yml:122:      - Introduction: curriculum/development/introduction.md
mkdocs.yml:123:    - Capstone Project: curriculum/capstone/project.md
docs/governance/single-source.md:55:├── curriculum/                 # Curriculum content
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ [Download the curriculum PDF](downloads/curriculum.pdf)
bash: syntax error near unexpected token ('
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ Curriculum PDF is generated in production builds and published under downloads/curriculum.pdf.
bash: Curriculum: command not found
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python -m mkdocs build -f mkdocs-pr.yml --clean
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
INFO    -  Building documentation to directory:
           /workspaces/curriculum_master/site
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/foundations/introduction.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/01-foundations/version-control.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/responsive-design.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/mathematics/applied.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/advanced/introduction.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/development/introduction.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/capstone/project.md' is included
           in the 'nav' configuration, which is not
           found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  Doc file 'index.md' contains a link
           'downloads/curriculum.pdf', but the target
           is not found among documentation files.
INFO    -  Documentation built in 0.55 seconds
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python -m mkdocs build --clean
ls -lh site/downloads/curriculum.pdf
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
INFO    -  Building documentation to directory:
           /workspaces/curriculum_master/site
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/foundations/introduction.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/01-foundations/version-control.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/03-web-dev/responsive-design.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/mathematics/applied.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md'
           is included in the 'nav' configuration,
           which is not found in the documentation
           files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/advanced/introduction.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/development/introduction.md' is
           included in the 'nav' configuration, which
           is not found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  A reference to
           'curriculum/capstone/project.md' is included
           in the 'nav' configuration, which is not
           found in the documentation files.
WARNING -  Doc file 'index.md' contains a link
           'downloads/curriculum.pdf', but the target
           is not found among documentation files.
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'index.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Launching browser...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/change-control.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/golden-rule.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/overview.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/pr-workflow.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/single-source.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Aggregating pages to
           'downloads/curriculum.pdf'...
INFO    -  Documentation built in 15.40 seconds
-rw-rw-rw- 1 codespace codespace 685K Jan  8 20:57 site/downloads/curriculum.pdf
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
============================================================
Golden Rule Hours Validation
============================================================
Core hours (excluding Math): 240 (expected: 240)
Math hours: 40 (expected: 40)
Total hours: 280 (expected: 280)
============================================================

✅ Golden Rule validation passed!
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ git add -A
git commit -m "Remove placeholder software curriculum and clean nav/PDF link"
git push
[copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo 6b7afd7] Remove placeholder software curriculum and clean nav/PDF link
 17 files changed, 2060 deletions(-)
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/01-foundations/version-control.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/03-web-dev/responsive-design.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/advanced/introduction.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/capstone/project.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/development/introduction.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/foundations/introduction.md
 delete mode 100644 docs/curriculum/mathematics/applied.md
Enumerating objects: 5, done.
Counting objects: 100% (5/5), done.
Delta compression using up to 2 threads
Compressing objects: 100% (3/3), done.
Writing objects: 100% (3/3), 331 bytes | 331.00 KiB/s, done.
Total 3 (delta 2), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0 (from 0)
remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (2/2), completed with 2 local objects.
To https://github.com/mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
   bcf0c63..6b7afd7  copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo -> copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ grep -RniE "programming|web dev|backend|javascript|developer fundamentals" docs mkdocs.yml README.md || true
docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md:37:- "I'm just not good at programming"
docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md:58:This is especially relevant in programming, where:
docs/professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md:146:- Find the aspects of programming that excite you
mkdocs.yml:101:      - Developer Fundamentals: curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md
mkdocs.yml:105:    - Programming Essentials:
mkdocs.yml:106:      - Programming Concepts: curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md
mkdocs.yml:107:      - Data Structures: curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md
mkdocs.yml:108:    - Web Development:
mkdocs.yml:110:      - JavaScript Fundamentals: curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md
mkdocs.yml:112:    - Backend Development:
mkdocs.yml:113:      - Server-Side Programming: curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md
mkdocs.yml:114:      - APIs and Integration: curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ 
ChatGPT said:
You’re doing it right. Two things are still wrong, and both are easy.

mkdocs.yml STILL has the deleted docs/curriculum/... pages in the nav (that’s why you’re seeing warnings).

The Grit/Growth page still contains “programming” language (needs to be construction/pre-apprenticeship, not software dev).

Also: you typed markdown into bash twice ([Download…] and “Curriculum PDF…”)—that’s just you trying to talk to your terminal. Terminal only understands commands, not curriculum feelings.

A) Fix mkdocs.yml nav (remove the dead curriculum section)
Open mkdocs.yml and delete

You said:
# MkDocs Configuration for ANEW Curriculum Master
# Docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement

# Site metadata
site_name: ANEW Curriculum Master
site_description: Single source of truth for ANEW curriculum content
site_author: ANEW
site_url: https://mandy1eigh007.github.io/curriculum_master/
# Repository information
repo_name: mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
repo_url: https://github.com/mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
edit_uri: edit/main/docs/
# Copyright
copyright: Copyright &copy; 2026 ANEW
# Theme configuration - Material theme with clean, non-decorative styling
theme:
  name: material
  language: en
  palette:
    # ANEW Blue primary color
    primary: blue
    accent: green
  font: false  # Disable Google Fonts to avoid network errors and use system fonts
  features:
    - navigation.tabs
    - navigation.sections
    - navigation.top
    - search.highlight
    - search.share
    - toc.follow
  # No logo or favicon with decorative icons
  icon:
    repo: fontawesome/brands/github
# Extra CSS for ANEW branding
extra_css:
  - stylesheets/extra.css
  - styles/anew.css
# Plugins
plugins:
  - search
  - exporter:
      formats:
        pdf:
          enabled: true
          # Aggregate all content into single PDF
          aggregator:
            enabled: true
            output: downloads/curriculum.pdf
            covers: none
          # PDF-specific styling
          stylesheets:
            - docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
          # Browser settings
          concurrency: 1
# Markdown extensions
markdown_extensions:
  # Standard extensions
  - abbr
  - admonition
  - attr_list
  - def_list
  - footnotes
  - meta
  - md_in_html
  - tables
  - toc:
      permalink: true
      toc_depth: 3
  
  # PyMdown Extensions for enhanced Markdown
  - pymdownx.arithmatex:
      generic: true
  - pymdownx.betterem:
      smart_enable: all
  - pymdownx.caret
  - pymdownx.details
  - pymdownx.highlight:
      anchor_linenums: true
      line_spans: __span
      pygments_lang_class: true
  - pymdownx.inlinehilite
  - pymdownx.keys
  - pymdownx.mark
  - pymdownx.smartsymbols
  - pymdownx.superfences
  - pymdownx.tabbed:
      alternate_style: true
  - pymdownx.tasklist:
      custom_checkbox: true
  - pymdownx.tilde
# Navigation structure (matches folder order)
nav:
    - Home: index.md
    - Single Source of Truth: governance/single-source.md
    - Pull Request Workflow: governance/pr-workflow.md
    - Golden Rule Enforcement: governance/golden-rule.md
    - Change Control: governance/change-control.md
    - Governance Overview: governance/overview.md
    - Foundations:
      - Introduction: curriculum/foundations/introduction.md
      - Developer Fundamentals: curriculum/01-foundations/developer-fundamentals.md
      - Version Control and Collaboration: curriculum/01-foundations/version-control.md
      - Problem Solving Basics: curriculum/01-foundations/problem-solving.md
    
    - Programming Essentials:
      - Programming Concepts: curriculum/02-programming/programming-concepts.md
      - Data Structures: curriculum/02-programming/data-structures.md
    - Web Development:
      - HTML and CSS: curriculum/03-web-dev/html-css.md
      - JavaScript Fundamentals: curriculum/03-web-dev/javascript-fundamentals.md
      - Responsive Design: curriculum/03-web-dev/responsive-design.md
    - Backend Development:
      - Server-Side Programming: curriculum/04-backend/server-side-programming.md
      - APIs and Integration: curriculum/04-backend/apis-integration.md
    - Mathematics:
      - Introduction: curriculum/mathematics/applied.md
      - Algebra and Logic: curriculum/05-mathematics/algebra-logic.md
      - Statistics and Probability: curriculum/05-mathematics/statistics-probability.md
    - Advanced Topics:
      - Introduction: curriculum/advanced/introduction.md
    - Development:
      - Introduction: curriculum/development/introduction.md
    - Capstone Project: curriculum/capstone/project.md
    - Grit & Growth Mindset: professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
    - Grit & Growth Mindset (Instructor): professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md
# Extra configuration
extra:
  # Social links (optional, can add later)
  social:
    - icon: fontawesome/brands/github
      link: https://github.com/mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
  # Analytics (optional, can configure later)
  # analytics:
  #   provider: google
  #   property: G-XXXXXXXXXX
# Strict mode - fail on warnings
strict: false
# Use directory URLs
use_directory_urls: true
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 34s
Yep — this mkdocs.yml is still pointing at a whole bunch of files you already deleted (docs/curriculum/...). That’s exactly why MkDocs is screaming.

Do this in two clean cuts.

1) Replace your nav: block (delete the dead curriculum nav)
In mkdocs.yml, replace everything from nav: down to the last Grit/Instructor line with this:

nav:
  - Home: index.md

  - Governance:
      - Single Source of Truth: governance/single-source.md
      - Pull Request Workflow: governance/pr-workflow.md
      - Golden Rule Enforcement: governance/golden-rule.md
      - Change Control: governance/change-control.md
      - Governance Overview: governance/overview.md

  - Professional Development:
      - Grit & Growth Mindset: professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
      - Grit & Growth Mindset (Instructor): professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md
That removes every reference to the deleted curriculum/... pages.

2) Kill the PDF link warning (so you can actually turn strict mode on)
Right now docs/index.md links to downloads/curriculum.pdf and MkDocs warns because that file isn’t in docs/ (it’s generated into site/).

Fix: change the link in docs/index.md to the published URL on GitHub Pages (MkDocs won’t try to validate it as an internal doc file):

Use this exact URL:

https://mandy1eigh007.github.io/curriculum_master/downloads/curriculum.pdf
Also add a note like “PDF is generated on main branch builds” since PR builds may not generate it.

Optional but matches your “no icons” rule
Remove these two blocks from mkdocs.yml:

Under theme: delete:

icon:
  repo: fontawesome/brands/github
Under extra: delete the whole social: section.

Then run the checks
python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
python -m mkdocs build --clean
python -m mkdocs serve
If mkdocs build finishes with no warnings, flip:

strict: true
What to tell Copilot (copy/paste)
“Update mkdocs.yml nav to remove all curriculum/* entries since docs/curriculum was deleted; keep only Governance and Professional Development (Grit & Growth Mindset student + instructor). Update docs/index.md PDF link to the full GitHub Pages URL so MkDocs doesn’t warn about missing internal targets. After warnings are gone, set strict: true.”

That’s it. This gets you back to a clean build and makes the repo ready for the next uploads without dragging the old placeholder junk around.

You said:
just give me the whole code
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 19s
# mkdocs.yml
# ANEW Curriculum Master — Docs-as-code repo with Golden Rule enforcement

site_name: ANEW Curriculum Master
site_description: Single source of truth for ANEW curriculum content
site_author: ANEW
site_url: https://mandy1eigh007.github.io/curriculum_master/

repo_name: mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
repo_url: https://github.com/mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
edit_uri: edit/main/docs/

copyright: Copyright &copy; 2026 ANEW

theme:
  name: material
  language: en
  palette:
    primary: blue
    accent: green
  font: false  # Disable Google Fonts (no network dependency)
  features:
    - navigation.tabs
    - navigation.sections
    - navigation.top
    - search.highlight
    - search.share
    - toc.follow

extra_css:
  - stylesheets/extra.css
  - styles/anew.css

plugins:
  - search
  - exporter:
      formats:
        pdf:
          enabled: true
          aggregator:
            enabled: true
            output: downloads/curriculum.pdf
            covers: none
          stylesheets:
            - docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
          concurrency: 1

markdown_extensions:
  - abbr
  - admonition
  - attr_list
  - def_list
  - footnotes
  - meta
  - md_in_html
  - tables
  - toc:
      permalink: true
      toc_depth: 3

  - pymdownx.arithmatex:
      generic: true
  - pymdownx.betterem:
      smart_enable: all
  - pymdownx.caret
  - pymdownx.details
  - pymdownx.highlight:
      anchor_linenums: true
      line_spans: __span
      pygments_lang_class: true
  - pymdownx.inlinehilite
  - pymdownx.keys
  - pymdownx.mark
  - pymdownx.smartsymbols
  - pymdownx.superfences
  - pymdownx.tabbed:
      alternate_style: true
  - pymdownx.tasklist:
      custom_checkbox: true
  - pymdownx.tilde

nav:
  - Home: index.md

  - Governance:
      - Single Source of Truth: governance/single-source.md
      - Pull Request Workflow: governance/pr-workflow.md
      - Golden Rule Enforcement: governance/golden-rule.md
      - Change Control: governance/change-control.md
      - Governance Overview: governance/overview.md

  - Professional Development:
      - Grit & Growth Mindset: professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
      - Grit & Growth Mindset (Instructor): professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md

strict: true
use_directory_urls: true
<!-- docs/index.md -->

# ANEW Curriculum Master

This repository is the single source of truth for curriculum content and hour enforcement.

## Key links

- Governance (how changes are controlled and reviewed)
  - Single Source of Truth
  - Pull Request Workflow
  - Golden Rule Enforcement
  - Change Control

- Professional Development
  - Grit & Growth Mindset (Student)
  - Grit & Growth Mindset (Instructor)

## Curriculum PDF

The PDF is generated during production builds and published here:

https://mandy1eigh007.github.io/curriculum_master/downloads/curriculum.pdf
You said:
k
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 52s
You’re good. Here’s what you should have Copilot do next (and you can paste this straight in), because right now your repo is still pointing MkDocs navigation at files you deleted (docs/curriculum/**). That’s why you’re seeing all the “nav configuration … not found” warnings.

What you need Copilot to fix
Update mkdocs.yml nav to remove all curriculum/... entries (since you deleted docs/curriculum/).

Keep only what actually exists right now: Home + Governance + Professional Development (Grit/Growth).

Fix the PDF link warning by making the PDF link absolute (MkDocs won’t try to validate it as a local doc file).

Update docs/governance/single-source.md so it doesn’t claim you have a curriculum/ folder anymore.

Below is the paste-ready code.

# mkdocs.yml
# ANEW Curriculum Master — Docs-as-code repo with Golden Rule enforcement

site_name: ANEW Curriculum Master
site_description: Single source of truth for ANEW curriculum content
site_author: ANEW
site_url: https://mandy1eigh007.github.io/curriculum_master/

repo_name: mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
repo_url: https://github.com/mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
edit_uri: edit/main/docs/

copyright: Copyright &copy; 2026 ANEW

theme:
  name: material
  language: en
  palette:
    primary: blue
    accent: green
  font: false  # avoid network calls for Google Fonts
  features:
    - navigation.tabs
    - navigation.sections
    - navigation.top
    - search.highlight
    - search.share
    - toc.follow

extra_css:
  - stylesheets/extra.css
  - styles/anew.css

plugins:
  - search
  - exporter:
      formats:
        pdf:
          enabled: true
          aggregator:
            enabled: true
            output: downloads/curriculum.pdf
            covers: none
          stylesheets:
            - docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
          concurrency: 1

markdown_extensions:
  - abbr
  - admonition
  - attr_list
  - def_list
  - footnotes
  - meta
  - md_in_html
  - tables
  - toc:
      permalink: true
      toc_depth: 3

  - pymdownx.arithmatex:
      generic: true
  - pymdownx.betterem:
      smart_enable: all
  - pymdownx.caret
  - pymdownx.details
  - pymdownx.highlight:
      anchor_linenums: true
      line_spans: __span
      pygments_lang_class: true
  - pymdownx.inlinehilite
  - pymdownx.keys
  - pymdownx.mark
  - pymdownx.smartsymbols
  - pymdownx.superfences
  - pymdownx.tabbed:
      alternate_style: true
  - pymdownx.tasklist:
      custom_checkbox: true
  - pymdownx.tilde

nav:
  - Home: index.md
  - Governance:
      - Single Source of Truth: governance/single-source.md
      - Pull Request Workflow: governance/pr-workflow.md
      - Golden Rule Enforcement: governance/golden-rule.md
      - Change Control: governance/change-control.md
      - Governance Overview: governance/overview.md
  - Professional Development:
      - Grit & Growth Mindset: professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
      - Grit & Growth Mindset (Instructor): professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md

# Set true once warnings are gone; with absolute PDF link + cleaned nav this should be safe.
strict: true
use_directory_urls: true
<!-- docs/index.md -->

# ANEW Curriculum Master

This repository is the single source of truth for curriculum content and Golden Rule hour enforcement.

## Governance

- Single Source of Truth
- Pull Request Workflow
- Golden Rule Enforcement
- Change Control
- Governance Overview

## Professional Development

- Grit & Growth Mindset (Student)
- Grit & Growth Mindset (Instructor)

## Curriculum PDF

The curriculum PDF is generated during production builds and published here:

https://mandy1eigh007.github.io/curriculum_master/downloads/curriculum.pdf
Now fix the one line in docs/governance/single-source.md where it claims there’s a curriculum folder. Replace that tree line with this:

├── professional-development/      # Professional development modules (student + instructor)
After those changes, run:

python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
mkdocs build --clean
mkdocs serve
That should eliminate the broken-nav warnings and keep your repo aligned with the fact you intentionally nuked the placeholder software curriculum.

You said:
/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
python -m mkdocs build --clean
python -m mkdocs serve
.============================================================
Golden Rule Hours Validation
============================================================
Core hours (excluding Math): 240 (expected: 240)
Math hours: 40 (expected: 40)
Total hours: 280 (expected: 280)
============================================================

✅ Golden Rule validation passed!
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
INFO    -  Building documentation to directory:
           /workspaces/curriculum_master/site
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'index.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Launching browser...
ERROR   -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf.browser] (error) ANEW
           Curriculum Master
           Failed to load resource:
           net::ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND
ERROR   -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf.browser] (error) ANEW
           Curriculum Master
           Failed to load resource:
           net::ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND
^C
Aborted!
python scripts/validate_golden_rule.py
python -m mkdocs build --clean
python -m mkdocs serveINFO    -  Building documentation...
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'index.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Launching browser...
ERROR   -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf.browser] (error) ANEW
           Curriculum Master
           Failed to load resource:
           net::ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND
ERROR   -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf.browser] (error) ANEW
           Curriculum Master
           Failed to load resource:
           net::ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'governance/change-control.md'...
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<frozen runpy>", line 198, in _run_module_as_main
  File "<frozen runpy>", line 88, in _run_code
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs/__main__.py", line 370, in <module>
    cli()
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/click/core.py", line 1485, in __call__
    return self.main(*args, **kwargs)
           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/click/core.py", line 1406, in main
    rv = self.invoke(ctx)
         ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/click/core.py", line 1873, in invoke
    return _process_result(sub_ctx.command.invoke(sub_ctx))
                           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/click/core.py", line 1269, in invoke
    return ctx.invoke(self.callback, **ctx.params)
           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/click/core.py", line 824, in invoke
    return callback(*args, **kwargs)
           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs/__main__.py", line 272, in serve_command
    serve.serve(**kwargs)
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs/commands/serve.py", line 85, in serve
    builder(config)
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs/commands/serve.py", line 67, in builder
    build(config, serve_url=None if is_clean else serve_url, dirty=is_dirty)
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs/commands/build.py", line 347, in build
    config.plugins.on_post_build(config=config)
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs/plugins.py", line 602, in on_post_build
    return self.run_event('post_build', config=config)
           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs/plugins.py", line 568, in run_event
    result = method(**kwargs)
             ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs_exporter/formats/pdf/plugin.py", line 154, in _on_post_build_1
    self.loop.run_until_complete(asyncio.gather(*concurrently(self.tasks, max(1, self.config.concurrency or 1))))
  File "/usr/local/python/3.12.1/lib/python3.12/asyncio/base_events.py", line 684, in run_until_complete
    return future.result()
           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs_exporter/helpers.py", line 29, in limit
    return await asyncio.create_task(coroutine)
           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs_exporter/formats/pdf/plugin.py", line 135, in render
    pdf, pages = await self.renderer.render(html)
                 ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs_exporter/formats/pdf/renderer.py", line 91, in render
    return await self.browser.print(html)
           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/mkdocs_exporter/formats/pdf/browser.py", line 100, in print
    await context.locator('body[mkdocs-exporter="true"]').wait_for(timeout=self.timeout)
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/playwright/async_api/_generated.py", line 17999, in wait_for
    await self._impl_obj.wait_for(timeout=timeout, state=state)
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/playwright/_impl/_locator.py", line 710, in wait_for
    await self._frame.wait_for_selector(
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/playwright/_impl/_frame.py", line 369, in wait_for_selector
    await self._channel.send(
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/playwright/_impl/_connection.py", line 69, in send
    return await self._connection.wrap_api_call(
           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/home/codespace/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages/playwright/_impl/_connection.py", line 559, in wrap_api_call
    raise rewrite_error(error, f"{parsed_st['apiName']}: {error}") from None
playwright._impl._errors.TimeoutError: Locator.wait_for: Timeout 60000ms exceeded.
Call log:
  - waiting for locator("body[mkdocs-exporter=\"true\"]") to be visible

@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python scripts/validate_go
lden_rule.py
============================================================
Golden Rule Hours Validation
============================================================
Core hours (excluding Math): 240 (expected: 240)
Math hours: 40 (expected: 40)
Total hours: 280 (expected: 280)
============================================================

✅ Golden Rule validation passed!
@mandy1eigh007 ➜ /workspaces/curriculum_master (copilot/create-docs-as-code-repo) $ python -m mkdocs build --c
lean
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
INFO    -  Building documentation to directory:
           /workspaces/curriculum_master/site
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Rendering
           'index.md'...
INFO    -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf] Launching browser...
ERROR   -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf.browser] (error) ANEW
           Curriculum Master
           Failed to load resource:
           net::ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND
ERROR   -  [mkdocs-exporter.pdf.browser] (error) ANEW
           Curriculum Master
           Failed to load resource:
           net::ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND
ChatGPT said:

Thought for 6m 5s
Here’s the full fixed mkdocs.yml.

What it does (without drama):

Removes the deleted docs/curriculum/** pages from nav (so you stop getting those “not found” warnings).

Fixes the PDF stylesheet path so Playwright stops throwing net::ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND.

Adds the official MkDocs Exporter PDF toggle env var so mkdocs serve doesn’t try to generate PDFs and blow up your dev loop. 

# MkDocs Configuration for ANEW Curriculum Master
# Docs-as-code curriculum repository with Golden Rule enforcement

site_name: ANEW Curriculum Master
site_description: Single source of truth for ANEW curriculum content
site_author: ANEW
site_url: https://mandy1eigh007.github.io/curriculum_master/

repo_name: mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
repo_url: https://github.com/mandy1eigh007/curriculum_master
edit_uri: edit/main/docs/

copyright: Copyright &copy; 2026 ANEW

theme:
  name: material
  language: en
  palette:
    primary: blue
    accent: green
  font: false
  features:
    - navigation.tabs
    - navigation.sections
    - navigation.top
    - search.highlight
    - search.share
    - toc.follow

extra_css:
  - stylesheets/extra.css
  - styles/anew.css

plugins:
  - search
  - exporter:
      formats:
        pdf:
          # IMPORTANT:
          # - Set MKDOCS_EXPORTER_PDF_ENABLED=false for mkdocs serve (fast dev)
          # - Set MKDOCS_EXPORTER_PDF_ENABLED=true for mkdocs build (generate PDF)
          enabled: !ENV [MKDOCS_EXPORTER_PDF_ENABLED, false]  # default: OFF for dev
          concurrency: 1
          aggregator:
            enabled: true
            output: downloads/curriculum.pdf
            covers: none
          # This must be a path that exists in the built site.
          # Your file lives at: docs/stylesheets/pdf.css
          # MkDocs copies it to: site/stylesheets/pdf.css
          stylesheets:
            - stylesheets/pdf.css

markdown_extensions:
  - abbr
  - admonition
  - attr_list
  - def_list
  - footnotes
  - meta
  - md_in_html
  - tables
  - toc:
      permalink: false
      toc_depth: 3

  - pymdownx.arithmatex:
      generic: true
  - pymdownx.betterem:
      smart_enable: all
  - pymdownx.caret
  - pymdownx.details
  - pymdownx.highlight:
      anchor_linenums: true
      line_spans: __span
      pygments_lang_class: true
  - pymdownx.inlinehilite
  - pymdownx.keys
  - pymdownx.mark
  - pymdownx.smartsymbols
  - pymdownx.superfences
  - pymdownx.tabbed:
      alternate_style: true
  - pymdownx.tasklist:
      custom_checkbox: true
  - pymdownx.tilde

nav:
  - Home: index.md

  - Single Source of Truth: governance/single-source.md
  - Pull Request Workflow: governance/pr-workflow.md
  - Golden Rule Enforcement: governance/golden-rule.md
  - Change Control: governance/change-control.md
  - Governance Overview: governance/overview.md

  - Grit & Growth Mindset: professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/index.md
  - Grit & Growth Mindset (Instructor): professional-development/grit-growth-mindset/instructor.md

strict: false
use_directory_urls: true
Run commands (copy/paste exactly):

# Dev (no PDF generation, no Playwright pain)
MKDOCS_EXPORTER_PDF_ENABLED=false python -m mkdocs serve

# Production-style build (generates the combined PDF)
MKDOCS_EXPORTER_PDF_ENABLED=true python -m mkdocs build --clean
If Playwright hasn’t been installed in that Codespace image yet, this is the required install command per MkDocs Exporter docs: 

playwright install chrome --with-deps
